The Story of Forrest Buchanan We walked together along the road to church, my small four-year-old hand in his giant hand, my steps trying to keep up with his huge strides. This memory has always been there to encourage me onward through life. Through it I know that I have a father who is strong, wise and caring. He only was there for me until a short time after I started my own adventure as a father, but I know that he still watches over me. Above all, he showed me through his life, example and humble teaching that I have a Heavenly Father who is also strong, wise and caring, and that as we try in our own meager way to live our lives, our divine father is watching over us, ready to pick us up when we fall and always ready to take our hands and walk with us through adversity as well as happy times, regardless of where our own tiny feet have taken us. This story is of Forrest's life and of the impressions he etched into my life.Though I always called him Daddy or Dad, I will refer to him in this history by his name.Beginnings in VeniceEarly in life, Forrest was closely acquainted with the hard, industrious life of a farmer. He was born on March 7, 1918 at 25 minutes to six o'clock in the evening, weighing 9 1/2 pounds, the first child of Archie Earl and Florene Davis Buchanan. They lived on a 40 acre farm in Venice, Utah. Forrest took care of the sheep from a young age. Being the oldest, many tasks fell to him in helping his father. Early on, he also showed a resourcefulness that would be a hallmark of his life. Regardless of the situation, he would craft a solution. As a boy, in his summer duties, he was responsible for herding about 30 to 40 head of sheep. He needed the help of dogs to keep the animals in control. One bird dog was not nearly as interested in the sheep as in a game of fetching sticks, so Forrest would throw the stick into the area of the sheep that needed to move, and the dog would dive into the flock after the stick, which frightened the sheep into moving. Another more serviceable dog was also used in the work, but unfortunately had acquired a taste for sheep flesh and would nip at the poor creatures. To solve this problem, Forrest fashioned a make-shift muzzle out of a tin can, cutting out both ends and strapping it over the maul of the dog. The dog could bark and drive the sheep without injuring them and could still run to the stream for a drink through the open end of the can.Forrest also used his inventiveness in entertaining others, especially his family. He built a cart and trained the dog to pull it wearing a harness he made. He explains, " I had a lot of enjoyment with this dog. One time I was giving my sister a ride in the cart. We got near some cows and he took after them. He really gave my sister a ride. The cart went over a bump, and threw her out, and before I got the dog stopped, the cart was a wreck. The axle broke on the cart and she was dumped out in some weeds. It didn't hurt her, just a good scare."In their farm experiences, they worked a lot with animals. Forrest tells a story of a horse that had more sense than the people did. "We had a real special riding horse. You could put a small child on his back, and the horse would walk real slow, then put a six or eight year old on and they could make him walk fast, then put a teenager on and they could make him trot. Only an adult could make him go fast. One time my father was going down to the farm (everyone lived in town and had their farms surrounding the town) and he stopped to talk to one of my uncles. He was still on the horse. He had been there for a little while. When he went to leave, the horse wouldn't move. My dad got really out of sorts with the horse. Just then another neighbor came running towards them yelling not to move that horse, because standing between the horse's front legs was a little boy with an arm around each leg. So the horse was real special. As soon as they got the boy away from the horse he moved, so Dad was really sorry of mistreating the horse."In their work with sheep, he relates: "My father always had a lot of sheep while in Venice, and every Spring they would have to be sheared. My father had his own shearing outfit and he would shear them and I would tie fleeces and tromp them in those huge wool sacks. They were three feet in diameter and about ten feet long. There was a scaffold that the sacks could be hung on. We had a metal ring, just the diameter of the sacks, then by folding the top over the ring, and fasten it with a few nails, then the wool could be tossed in, then I would climb in and tromp it tight and hard. We would poke small quantities of wool in the corners at the bottom, then tie the corners to form handles to maneuver them around when loading them on the trucks or wagons. My father would take his shearing outfit to all the farmers around town, who had sheep and shear all their sheep. So I had lots of experience of tromping wool."Another aspect of Forrest's life that carried into my life was his love of the outdoors, camping and exploring. He explains about his home town, "The town of Venice has the Sevier River winding through the center of the town. I used to have a lot of fun around this river. We could swim, fish and wade. Sometimes we would be only clad in a shirt and with a pitchfork we would go up the river and spear fish, mostly carp, and throw them out on the bank. It brings back fond memories."He later tells of an experience he had with his father: "In the late spring the wild flowers would cover whole hillsides in the most beautiful array of colors, really a sight to behold. On one occasion in the mountains, after we had checked on the cattle, we decided to go fishing. It was late afternoon. We were having such good luck that it started to get dark on us before we started for camp. Somehow we took the wrong fork of the stream and wound up in an area we weren't acquainted with, and we became lost. We spent several hours trying to find our way out, but to no avail. So Dad started to holler as loud as he could. He soon got hoarse, but someone heard us and started to holler back. We finally got to their camp about eleven o' clock at night, and found that we were about five miles from our camp. It was quite an experience to remember."Also on the farm, he learned the value of natural resources. Water especially was a precious commodity. "We had a 40 acre farm in Venice, and were able to raise hay and grain and sugar beets, but there was a real water shortage. We had to utilize every drop, sometimes there would only be one watering for all the summer's hay crop. Every type of crop had to be furrowed off so the benefit of the irrigation could be reached as far as possible."When it came to harvesting their crops and getting ready for winter, they again used their innate resourcefulness. "In harvesting our alfalfa hay, after it was cut, we would pile it with a dump rake. Then after it was cured and dry we would haul it loose on a hay rack. All we had for wagons were the old iron tire wagons. We had a unique way of stacking our hay. We had what we called a Vee rope. This rope was about an inch and a half in diameter and it was long enough to cross the wagon twice. It would be placed on the wagon in the shape of a vee, with a loop on the vee side and on the ends a knot. Then the hay would be stacked on the rope and tromped. When we got a good size load on we would haul it to the stack, and there on the stack we would have two heavy ropes as long as we wanted to make the stack. Each rope had a loop on the end, so they could be attached to the knots on the Vee rope under the load of hay. Then we had a steel cable that was twice as long as the stack. The cable has a hook on it. We throw the cable over the load of hay and hook it in the loop on the Vee rope. Then I would take the team of horses off the wagon and take them around behind the stack and hook on the cable. Dad would take the pitch fork and stick it in the hay and wrap the other ends of the long ropes around the pitch fork handle to anchor the ropes. So while Dad was holding the ropes, I with the team would roll the load of hay right up the stack wherever he wanted it. Then he would release the ropes and I would pull them free. Then after the hay was leveled out I would have the ropes and cable ready to be placed on the stack for the next load, then hitch the team up and repeat the process. We could build stacks thirty to forty feet high and sixty to seventy feet long. In the winter time, when we feed the hay we had a hay knife that we could cut a section off the end, then as that was used down to the ground, then we could start a new cut and so on. We cut all our grain with a binder with it cut this way it would be in bundles. Then when the grain was dry we would haul it and stack it in round stacks about twenty feet high. Then the threshing machine would come and they would pitch the bundles in the machine. After the grain was separated, the straw was blown out into a stack. As kids we sure had a lot of fun on these straw stacks."In his later life, Forrest wrote a thoughtful note of thanks to his father, then serving a mission in Florida. This letter was written around 1964. Here is an excerpt describing his life with his father as a youth: "My mind wanders back to some of the things that have transpired while growing up. I think of the times I helped Dad drive cattle and sheep up on the range. And how we would visit the sheep camps and have our meals, such as sour dough bread and all that goes with it. I remember one late spring when we got up by cold springs that the wild flowers were all out in bloom. It was a most magnificent sight to see. There were all colors imaginable.We would see some of the wild game to excite our pleasure.The fishing trip up in U M when we got lost and Dad began to holler, and after lots of walking and yelling someone soon answered us and we got back safely. I think of the times working with the sheep, Dad teaching me how to shear a sheep, of tromping wool, and herding sheep. Learning how to do things on the farm, that has been a great help to me ever since."Forrest was raised in religious family, his grandparents and great-grandparents having embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ and joining the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in early days of the church. The area they lived in was settled by both his father's and mother's families in pioneer times. Forrest was blessed in the church one month to the day of his birth, by J. C. Cowley in the Venice Ward. He was baptised in the Stake Tabernacle in Richfield on 6 June 1926 by Wayne Christian, confirmed by A. W. Buchanan the following day. He was involved in church activity, as shown by church records of his priesthood ordination of Deacon on 6 July 1930. He received a certificate on 14 April 1933 for completing 3 years of Junior Seminary.Life in Northern UtahForrest was a member of the FFA (Future Farmers of America), and along with his activities, he participated in an activity in faraway Logan. He relates: "While we were living in Venice, they had what was called the Farmers Encampment, which was held on campus of the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan. There were farmers from throughout the State that gathered there, driving their old cars. It was a real experience. They furnished all the buttermilk you could drink. There were lots of activities and games of all kinds and gatherings for the parents. One thing that I vividly remember was that the old Model T Fords had gravity feed gas and on some of those steep dugways, they would have to be turned around and backed up the hill to get to our destination." This was before 19 May, 1935 when he was ordained a Priest in the Logan 5th Ward, and after his sophomore year of high school in Richfield, because he then states, "It wasn't long after this that Dad wanted to try out for a Forest Ranger, so after my Sophomore year we moved to Logan, Utah, and Dad went to College to train for the Forest Service. He went for two years then found there were no openings. So we moved out to North Logan and rented a farm. We lived there about a year and a half. In the meantime Dad spent a lot of time searching up through Idaho and Northern Utah for a piece of ground to buy. He finally located an eighty acre farm in West Tremonton and bought it for 8,000 dollars. It had a big home on it, also a barn, granary and other small buildings. Dad got a loan from the Federal Land Bank."During this time Forrest was expected to help with the support of the family and had to quit school before graduating from high school. He did a lot of work on the farm, something he had a lot of experience with and a skill that he relied upon for much of his life to support himself and his family. During these times, there was an interesting experience he had with raising pigs. "...one spring we had a litter of pigs. They were pure white, they had made a remarkable gain in weight. They were six months old and they averaged two hundred and fifty pounds each. Well, the Ag teacher was out to our farm one day and he saw those pigs, and said that we just had to get them in the stock show. (The Ogden Livestock Show was just starting.) So we took him up on it and entered them in the livestock show. I took first place in the Junior division and the open in both the single pig and the pen of three, and Champion of the Junior Division and Grand Champion of the whole show in the swine department. This happened in 1938. There were six pigs in the litter." The article in the paper reports: "Dominant figure among the fat swine showmen Saturday was six-foot, two-and-one-half-inch Forrest Bunchanan (sic), 19, who showed his Chester Whites to the grand championship class in both Future Farmer and open classes to continue the record of Tremonton-Garland Future Farmers. ... But Buchanan is a Tremonton-Garland F.F.A. alumnus only by adoption. He went to school his first F.F.A. year at Richfield. And, so did his father, A. E. Buchanan. ... Jerry W. Buchanan, 4-year-old brother and son of the unique family of stockmen, is next in line for honors. But even now he is the assistant to his father and big brother and a most severe "critic" of the training and feeding routine they use in fitting their animals for the ring."Forrest tells once when his father got quite frustrated with him. He asked Forrest to go get the car keys, but all he could hear was "corkies". They both laughed a lot when they finally worked out the confusion together. I am not sure when this happened, but it could have been around this time. Archie called Forrest, "Bud" and relied on him a lot to help around the farm. Forrest also worked on other farms in the area over the next few years.Military ServiceI do not have much information about Forrest's young adult life. He was ordained an Elder in Tremonton on Feb. 16, 1941. Less than a month later, he entered military service in the United States Army Field Artillery with a group of over 90 men from the Garland area (Bear River Valley) on March 12, 1941, and was stationed beginning in San Luis Obispo, California. His group was stationed in that area until the bombing of Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941. He had his first training there for about 13 weeks. From the pictures in his photo album, it looks like he traveled on maneuvers to Chehalis, Washington from August 6th to the 30th. He was in a number of other places, mainly in California and Washington including a trip to the Los Angeles area around November 11th and San Francisco around Christmas of that year. His group was moved to Escondido, California the day after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. Some of his group was later transferred to Fort Lewis Washington. A postcard written to his parents dated October of 1942 seems to indicate that he was then traveling to Fort Lewis, with an address there, but he may have been in Washington a while before that time. A newspaper article states that they were sent to do desert training in the Yakima Desert. Most of his outfit were sent to Maui, Hawaii in preparation for service in the Pacific region of the war.There are some good pictures of Forrest in his army activities. As is evident in some pictures, it he enjoyed comparing his large stature with the size of his fellow soldiers. One particularly humorous photograph shows Forrest standing up with his arms extended and three friends all standing under the level of his arms, emphasizing the size difference. This is typical of his humor. I find it interesting, too, that two of these friends are of Japanese ancestry, notable because the photograph was taken a few months before the bombing of Pearl Harbor, after which our nation became quite paranoid about Japanese people, putting many in interment camps for the duration of the war. According to the newspaper article, though, "five Japanese-American boys in our group were taken and sent to fight in Europe where their unit became highly decorated". This transfer is implied to have taken place almost immediately after the attack in Hawaii.He was discharged from the service because of some problems with his feet. I understand that this happened a short time prior to his unit being shipped away. He often told us that it was during his stint in the Army that he lost his beautiful wavy hair, blamed on army hats and/or the medical treatments he received in the Army.Tremonton and Idaho FallsAccording to letter envelopes and tithing receipts found among his papers, It appears that Forrest lived in Tremonton in 1943 through 1945. The letters were dated 1943 and were from  Myrtice Mundy of Augusta, Georgia. She was quite an artist by the look of her drawings on the envelopes. I remember Dad saying that she was quite interested in him, but he did not share the affection.Sometime around November or December of 1945 Forrest moved to Idaho Falls, Idaho. According to his written history: "In 1945 I left home and went to work up in Idaho. I worked on a dry farm in Cleveland. Then later on I worked in the potatoes in Blackfoot, then  in a grocery store in Idaho Falls. While there I did a lot of Temple work. A dear friend named Walter Clark, who was a temple worker and had a farm in Squirrel, Idaho offered to send me on my mission which I accepted. "In February, 1947 he received his mission call to the New England States Mission in a letter dated Feb. 6, 1947 from Pres. George Albert Smith. At the time, missionaries were ordained to the office of Seventy. He was ordained on Mar. 10, 1947 by Oscar A. Kirkham. His mission certificate is dated Mar. 12, 1947.Mission to New EnglandIn his history, Forrest writes "I was called to the New England States Mission. I went in the Mission Home in March 1947 [the 16th]. The first place I labored was in Bridgeport, Conn., then New Haven, Conn. Yale University was only a block away. We would go there and take our shower when needed. William H. Reeder was my Mission President for about three months. S. Dilworth Young replaced him. We had the privilege of working under his leadership. Soon after this I was transferred to Sanford, Maine. While there Pres. Young got permission from state officials to hold street meetings and to go country tracting without purse or scrip. This was a new experience that we had read about, but never thought we would have a chance to try it out. Up until now we spent all our tracting time in the cities going from house to house, but now we were assigned to go out in the country, depending solely on the people. In making preparations for this venture, we found that we could purchase paper collars. We cut our collars off our shirts, and attached these paper collars on, and when they got soiled they could be turned wrong-side out and they would last about a week. We washed our garments and shirts and socks in the brook and while they were drying we would have our study class. We were told not to accept any rides or we would pass up homes. So we walked wherever we went. We found that the people in the country were friendly and curious and hospitable. We were out only in the summer time, which was four months, but during that time we had much success in getting into homes and had many fine discussions and were fed well. The only money we spent was to get our shoes repaired and to have our suits cleaned, which amounted to about eight dollars. We walked 150 miles. There were quite a few investigators gained from that first summer. The second summer I was transferred to southern Vermont, and didn't have near the success as in Maine. Everywhere we went we encountered Seventh-day Adventists, who listed us as their investigators, and likewise we were doing the same to them. In the four month period we slept out 13 nights and missed 26 meals. We slept in gravel pits, hay stacks, twice got permission to sleep in a school house. In fact I got sick from it all and it caused me to be released about three months early, but I'm glad I had that experience. We gained much, and it really strengthened my testimony. We received so many blessings."While in New England we had the privilege of visiting the granite quarries, the paper mills, clothing mills, one in particular was where they make Martha Washington bed spreads, and we witnessed them in the making, also visited slate quarries, where they make slate shingles. They uncover large slate rocks, and while they are still moist, they take their chisels, and gently tap on the seams, and the slate slabs separate and they are about a quarter of an inch thick, then they are cut and holes punched for the nails when they are installed on the houses. Most all the homes in this part of Vermont have slate roofs. The color is a dark dull green, with faint brown stripes."One story he tells is where they are invited to dinner by a woman who earns a living doing housework for others.  When they insisted on doing the dishes, she refused.  They continued to insist until she finally gave in.  As they worked, they discovered that she had not washed her own dishes for months, but rather stacked them in the cupboards.  They did dishes for a very long time.  Another story was about a prank they played on another elder who had a strong dislike for runny eggs.  He always boiled them for a long time.  For their prank, they substituted fresh raw eggs for the long time boiling ones.  He took one out and found it quite runny, then boiled them more for a very long time afterwards. During his mission, he spent some time at the Joseph Smith birthplace and was there when it was set up as a monument.A journal exists that covers nearly the last 5 months of his mission. It gives quite a feeling of the experience he and his companion in what they called "country tracting" or serving without purse or scrip. It appears from his journal in 1948 and a report in 1947 that he spent at least 4 months each year in traveling without purse or scrip. By the end of August 1947 he had spent 10 weeks "in country work", spending $8 for food and lodging. From mid June of 1948 (when the journal begins) until about the middle of October, he was doing country tracting.The next section is a summary of some of his experiences, taken from the journal.It appears that their daily efforts included several goals. These included finding people to teach, inviting people to meetings that they would hold, usually about once a week in some location they would arrange for, but among the goals included the need to receive meals and lodging from the local people. They would explain to people how they were traveling without means of support, but it does not appear that they resorted to any begging tactics, only relying on the good graces of the people to offer food, etc. Some days they were left without a place to stay, but usually they ended up in someone's home. They would usually have some gospel discussions with the people, sometimes holding a "cottage meeting", a more formal discussion about the gospel, but those were not very common.Some people would keep them several days at a time or would be there in case other arrangements failed. Others would have work for them to do, presumably to help pay for the food and lodging by labor. In one occasion, in East Poultney, Vermont, he and his companion helped a local farmer, Mr. Fenton haul manure (one time he referred to it: "Hauled more sunshine today."). During the time of their work, a fox attacked the farmer's chickens and Elder Service shot the fox. There is a picture of both the sunshine hauling and the fox among Forrest's pictures. In his areas of Vermont, there were quite a few people belonging to the Seventh Day Adventist Church, most of them friendly to them, though not very open to their teachings. On one occasion he sang for them.In one occasion it appears that they asked to spend the night in a local church. Forrest relates concerning his inquiry: "He didn't think so, but would ask his wife. Later he came back cursing us in the Name of Jesus Christ that he didn't think much of our belief and was sorry we couldn't agree with the way he believed." Somehow, they managed to get into the church anyway (being informed of a "secret passage way" from the town hall into the church) and stayed not only one night there, but two nights.They arranged to hold meetings, often in public buildings, usually schools, sometimes churches. On several occasions, they would also sleep in the school buildings on or around the days of their meetings.Finding meals was a problem sometimes. Often they were fed well, but sometimes their conditions were meager. Some days they would need to eat food, usually sandwiches, that were given to them days earlier, at least in one occasion at least a week earlier. Forrest complained of stomach problems in several places. I wonder about the condition of the food they ate at times.Personal hygiene was mentioned little, but in a few places he mentions going to the stream to wash up and shave. A few places offered to let them bathe. At one point he mentions purchasing some alum at the store as a deodorant. They washed their clothes in nearby streams. Forrest mentioned a few times repairing his clothes, including: "Sewed the press in [his pants] and patched the knee and the seat. Trying to make it last for the summer." He did visit a couple of doctors, for his stomach, kidney and, in the end, fatigue. He also had his eyes checked and after a visit to the dentist he commented: "He sure did a fine job. Filled five cavities and only charged me $13.00. Also gave me a cleaning job. The best I've ever had."One time he describes himself coming down with a cold or flu which lasted about a week. He and his companion were staying at the home of some people they met tracting, the Don and Barbara Dekker or Decker family of Castleton, Vermont. His companion also came down with the sickness. It seems amazing to me that they put them up for this long as they struggled with sickness. He and his companion later did some significant work for the Deckers and he hoped that they some day would come into the church.His work with the people also put them into some strange situations. One man they were staying with attempted suicide while they were there (in another room). Fortunately, they were able to get him treated and to the hospital. From later writings it appears that he was doing better. One man, a member of the church, was dealing with financial or business failure (which caused him to have a nervous breakdown) and sent his wife and child(ren) to live in a trailer home while he went off to try to solve his business problems "alone". Forrest and his companion felt it important to check up on the family occasionally.The workings of the church appeared to be limited or even completely lacking in the areas where he and his companion worked. In the time period of his journal, there is no mention whatsoever of attending church meetings with members, even Sacrament meeting or Priesthood meeting. One place he mentions a member who gives them "ten dollars to turn into the branch for fast offering and also for us to keep some of it." He does mention holding a "sacrament" meeting several times with individuals, usually non-members and often on a weekday evening. There is never mentioned a bishop, branch president or any other church official in the 5 months of the journal entries. He does meet with his mission president twice or three times and once mentions meeting with a member and receiving tracts, pamphlets and materials for his work.One thing he specifically mentioned as enjoyable was listening to the Tabernacle Choir and Organ broadcast. This happened a number of times, usually at the home of someone who put them up for the night. He mentions a few times of singing to people, stating that they seemed to enjoy it.In all his work, there is not any indication that any of the people they taught, really progressed much towards accepting the church and its teachings. He mentioned one person who had given up smoking for a week, but returned to the habit, "as bad as ever". You can tell that he was discouraged by it, quite uncharacteristic in his writing, describing the family when they returned that "they weren't interested in our appearance there. We were just one of the dozens of flies pestering the household." He says that they stayed the night with them anyway.They scheduled and held a number of meetings, but in nearly every case, no one came. They held their meetings anyway, usually a study time for him and his companion. In one case, they scheduled a meeting and got the keys to the building (often the more difficult part of the task), and found that the keys did not work, so they "had to remove the bolts out of the hinges to be able to hold the meeting." That particular meeting at least was somewhat productive because a few people came and "when we were closing, another fellow came in. After the meeting we talked quite a bit on religion and other stuff. We asked the fellow if we could sleep in his barn and he said sure. So after we put the hinge back on the door, we went up to his place, but he decided to share his house with us. We had a delicious supper, the opportunity to take a bath and to rest very well." Then he added in his writing: "We saw the cutest pair of twin fawns today, sure pretty." He seemed to always find to opportunity to see beauty wherever he was.Forrest had two companions during these last five months, Elder Hamilton from Missouri and Elder Service from Holladay, Utah. It is interesting to note that Elder Service was married at the time and at one point received a package from his wife. In one of his sick times, he mentions that his companion "has been swimming most of the day" while he recuperated. For those not acquainted with present day missionary rules, swimming is strictly forbidden now.Forrest mentions one experience when he and his companion (Elder Hamilton) went to South Royalton, Vermont to join other elders and missionaries for celebration at the Joseph Smith monument. This took place on July 24, 1948. It is interesting that Forrest was "elected" to be the cook for the weekend. He cooked chili, made sandwiches and rice pudding. He also worked at taking the official sign and making "a sealtite job" of it. He describes the day of the festivities: "All the Elders left for the monument and left me here. So I fixed some sandwiches and about noon I got ready and a truck came back for something and were surprised that I was still here. So they took me up with the bunch. We had an enjoyable day with the association with all the Elders. Especially with Elder Kezerian. In the afternoon we played  softball and later on had a good spiritual feast. Bro. Fugal and Pres. Young both spoke, and I sang twice in a double mixed quartet and once in a quartet. Then many of the people left. Later on we had a couple of comical skits. Soon the day was finished and the celebration was over. We went back to the chapel. We stopped at the store and I bought $11.00 worth of food for Sunday."Forrest was released from his mission on December 15, 1948. He says in his written history that upon his return, the bishop was unable to schedule a time for him to report his mission, asking him to wait a few months. He had nothing to keep him in Idaho Falls, so he returned to Tremonton and never did report his mission.Life After the MissionBy the time Forrest moved back to his family, his father had sold their home in West Tremonton and moved to Deweyville. He stayed home for the summer, but got restless and moved to Salt Lake City (his own words). There he went through many short-term jobs. He stayed in an apartment near the State Capitol. There he was introduced to Arvilla Jacobson whom he soon married. Here are his words about the process:"... there was a girl living in one of the apartments there that just knew that I was the one she had been praying for. But I couldn't stand her. She was such an odd person. She finally decided that I wasn't interested in her, so she decided that I should meet her girl friend. I thought if she was anything like her, I didn't want to be bothered. But I finally consented to meet her and it ended up that I married her, after about four months of dating. So we were married on 26 January 1950."My understanding is that they decided in November that they should get married, and soon, since they were both no longer young people. He was approaching 32 years of age at the time and she was 35.Marriage and Early Family LifeBoth Forrest and Arvilla were strong in the gospel. Both had served missions, she serving in Texas and Louisiana in the late 1930's. Both had a love for the temple and its powerful influence. They were married on January 26, 1950. A wedding Announcement reads: COUPLE WEDS IN SALT LAKE TEMPLE  Mr. and Mrs. Eddie Jacobson of Oak City, announce the marriage of their daughter Arvilla, to Mr. Forrest D Buchanan of Salt Lake City, son of Mr. and Mrs. Earl Buchanan of Garland, Utah. The impressive ceremony took place on Thursday morning January 26th in the Salt Lake Temple with President Robert D. Young officiating. Relatives and close friends witnessed the marriage.Immediately following the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. J. Elmer Anderson of 1990 So. Main, Salt Lake City, uncle and aunt of the bride entertained at a wedding breakfast in honor of the bride and groom. Music for the guests was provided by Mr. Harper Stoneman, a vocalist, accompanied by Wilhelmina Stoneman Freeman.The bride is an accomplished pianist, a former student of the BAC in Cedar City and filled her LDS mission in the Texas-Louisiana field. The groom served in the U. S. Army in World War II., filled a mission to the New England States, and is a member of the Orpheus Singers of Salt Lake City.After honeymooning in southern California, the couple will make their home in Salt Lake City.  Forrest and Arvilla Buchanan first made their home with her uncle Elmer Anderson on 1990 South Main Street in Salt Lake City, but they soon moved to an apartment of their own at 134 A Street in the Avenues district of Salt Lake City. They were part of the South Eighteenth Ward of the Ensign Stake of the church. Forrest worked as a laborer, Arvilla worked at Deseret Book Company in Salt Lake City.In December, Forrest and Arvilla became parents to their first child, a son, Joseph, born on the 18th of that month. Here is a birth announcement, believed to be written by Forrest, showing his sense of humor: To Whom It May Concern:This will serve to introduce Joseph E. Buchanan, son of Forrest D. and Arvilla J. Buchanan of Salt Lake City, Utah. The young Mr. Buchanan was ushered into this city on December 18, 1950 by Dr. U. R. Bryner and assistant and immediately took up residence at the L.D.S. Hospital; but because of present housing conditions he found it necessary to change his address to 134 A Street.With reference to young Mr. Buchanan's attributes, at the time of his arrival, his height was 21 1/2 inches and he weighed 8 pounds 13 1/2 oz. He has blue eyes , an extremely rosy complexion and has dark hair. His most outstanding feature is his lusty voice which he frequently uses to impress those around him.Prior to his arrival here, he led a most active life, and judging from this he will undoubtedly continue his activity even more enthusiasticallyIf there is any further question as to his abilities, etc., please address your inquiries to Mr. Buchanan's permanent address listed above.Proudly,His Parents,FORREST AND ARVILLA BUCHANAN Between the time of the announcement and the blessing, it was decided that his middle name not be Eddie, for Arvilla's father, but rather Forrest (I believe that this change took place without Arvilla's prior knowledge - at the time of the blessing). The blessing was pronounced by Forrest on March 4, 1951 in the South Eighteenth Ward.This was indeed a change in Forrest's life. He had gone through many experiences, mainly dictated by events outside of his control. He went by faith and trusted in his Heavenly Father, doing those things he needed to to be blessed and led to do the right things.His Life, Love and Work in support for his FamilyFrom the outset, it is obvious from his way of life that Forrest did everything in his power to support and bless his family, physically as well as spiritually. He was unable to bear recognition or attention, preferring rather to quietly serve. It was not until much later in his life that he would be able to accept a role that would put him in front of people in a leadership capacity. Mostly he was a quiet worker.In his capacity as breadwinner, Forrest nearly always worked in jobs as an unskilled laborer, but always found ways to move up and learn new skills. Farming was his trade, but he had a good mind and he was always able to grow and learn.We did not stay long in the avenues apartment. Sometime in April we moved to a home in Murray, 750 East 4200 South. Forrest worked at Maxfield Candy Company at this time. He learned candy making skills from his mother (also evidenced in his mission journal). Some of his specialties in candy making at home over the years included peanut brittle, homemade marshmallows coated in toasted cocoanut, divinity and the best of all was his famous pinoche (or penuche) also called olympian cream, which can also be found in the center of the well-known Maxfield Pecan Log. Unfortunately working with candy every day ruined his health. He suffered from colitis. He got an opportunity to work at the Wilford Stake farm in Lehi, near the Saratoga resort. Forrest was skilled at working farms and earned his living at the stake farm for about two years. This was an interesting place, the groundwater being very warm with geothermal energy. The culinary water was naturally hot and full of minerals. We had to cool it off to use it.The Summer of 1953 found us in West Jordan in a nice home on Pole Line Road, 8119 South 2700 West, the home and land purchased on May 26, 1953. The owner of the candy company convinced Forrest to return to work at Maxfield's so he needed a place to live (having left the stake farm). Here in West Jordan, Forrest had some land, three acres to cultivate and a place to keep animals. He always had a milk cow and come chickens when he could, here and in some other homes. Here my brother Lynn was born on December 11th. Here also my mother Arvilla had serious back surgery, earlier in the year 1954. Our family stayed in West Jordan until early 1957 when the place was sold on 27 February to the Martaranos. The home and 3 acres of land sold for $9000. The statement accompanying the sale said that they left a Jersey cow, chickens, hay and coal with the property. Forrest describes his decision as a mistake, deciding to sell the place in West Jordan and buying our Oakland Avenue home in South Salt Lake. His incentive for the move was to move closer to his workplace of Maxfield's (south and west of Salt Lake City). In South Salt Lake, we still had a little land, enough for a few fruit trees, a sizable garden with a flowing well and a chicken coop. For a time, Forrest still had a cow or steer quartered, I believe in West Jordan somewhere. He was always working in different ways to support his family, both on the job and with his skills with land and animals.After a short time, the problems of health returned caused by his candy tasting part of his duties at MaxfieldÍs, so he needed to look for work again. He found another farm job somewhere around May of 1958. We all moved to the Hi-Ute ranch, near Kimballs Junction along highway 40 near Park City. This work on the 2300 acre ranch was difficult. Hay and grain crops were raised, beef cattle grazed and needed to be fed during the bitter winters, where snow piled in six-foot drifts around the house and nighttime temperatures at times reached almost 40 degrees below zero. Still, through the arduous work and severe conditions, Forrest was able to do remarkable things. He raised peas when everyone told him it was impossible. He even raised some tomatoes, though the growing season was so short that only a few small fruits were harvested. He took care of the grounds and around the three houses in the little hollow, mowing the vast grassy lawns with a power mover. We lived in two of the three houses, the white one with 7 pines first and the rock house next. In his work on the ranch, he rode the hills of the ranch on horseback and on the tractor. He fed the cattle with bales of hay from a trailer pulled by the tractor. In the summers, we spent hours in the little canyons behind the ranch, harvested wild berries and rejoiced in nature. In the winter, he showed us how to ride sleds on the crusty snow drifts and often pulled us behind the tractor.Forrest tells of several experiences of the remote ranch life. He explains in his writings that "we had to go to Park City to Church, and the boys had to go to Park City to School. I helped on the building of a new chapel while there. We had many rich experiences, and I got started in genealogy and was on genealogy committees. Our stake conferences were held in Kamas, Utah." He describes a terrifying experience where he realized the help of the Lord in overcoming a near disaster: "During the summer, I had a faith promoting experience. I was cleaning the irrigation ditches and doing some limited burning, keeping it well under control, when suddenly a whirlwind came upon me and scattered this fire into a stubble field about twenty feet away and those flames raced across that big field. I fought it until I was ready to collapse and I could see any minute that it would be burning up the hillside. I knelt down and asked for help and almost instantly the wind stopped and I was given added strength to quickly put out the flame."Growing up, I always remember having a television set. Here on the ranch, reception was poor, so he worked to improve the situation: "There was a couple living in one of the homes on the ranch that they were renting. They bought a home up in Hoytsville. They had a special antenna, called a rhombic antenna. They could get a pretty good picture. They said we could try it while they were moving and if it worked for us we could get us one. It was a huge thing, about twelve feet long and eight feet wide shaped like a cross. They had it on a steel pipe anchored to a cedar post at the side of the house, the antenna reaching above the house. I had one of my nephews (David Jacobson) helping me on the farm, and he was helping me take it down. We undid the guy wires and he held them out of the way while I began to let it down, when suddenly the most awful sensation went through me. I felt like I was going round and round and I could hear my nephew calling 'Uncle Forrest, uncle Forrest'. It knocked me out for a moment. I came to and then fell over again and my wife saw me fall and came running. The antenna was all crumpled up on the ground. It had come in contact with the power line which goes to Park City, which carries 7200 volts. We called the power company and they said it was classed as an electrocution. I had little pinhole burns all over both hands, a big burn on my right forearm, but the main burn was just above my ankle bone." He recovered from the accident, though he had some adverse effects the rest of his life. I will explain more of the effects of this injury later in this history.After working for about a year and a half on the ranch, the owner, Otto Buehner, died and there were some concerns as to the disposition of the ranch property. Rather than becoming embroiled in the family process, Forrest decided to move the family back to our South Salt Lake home. This was in late December of 1959. We had rented it to another family while we were living in Park City. Forrest was given a job at Buehner Block company. He worked there for a while, but found that the money was not good enough, so he found better paying work at the Walker Monument company engraving and setting headstones. This was good work, but was seasonal. I remember traveling with my father to various cemeteries around the state. He did not have employment in the winter months.During these years, Forrest worked at other ways to improve himself. He took a course from the Commercial Trades Institute and received a diploma in 1959 in television repair. He built a television from a kit sent to him and had a tube tester for diagnosing television vacuum tubes. The television did not work very well and he did not find any real opportunity to use his skills in television repair. Having left school before finishing high school, Forrest was able to secure little more than unskilled labor in all his jobs. He decided to take some courses and get his high school diploma, receiving the diploma on June 11th 1965. To get his diploma, Forrest did not take the easy classes to get by. He studied chemistry and advanced math classes, and did very well in them. He was always intelligent and creative, which showed in all the things he did to support the family.Around the time that he received his high school diploma, he started working at Eitel-McCullough, later called Eimac. He was a brazing furnace operator at the plant. during his time there, he received several awards, including cash for ideas that improved processes there. His inventiveness also included using the heat from the brazing furnaces to cook his lunch, usually a foil covered potato and some vegetables.Though he was not ever very well paid in any of the jobs he held, Forrest provided well for his family, mainly because of his skills and abilities to make things work. He describes our experiences at Oakland Avenue: "We had a garden and access to a flowing well. I built a chicken coop, so we had our own eggs and meat. I also built a carport and a shop and a root cellar. I've always been handy with my hands, being able to tackle any job before me. I've never had to hire any one to fix plumbing, or electrical, or any repair work. It has always been easy to figure out problems that arise." He was able to do anything, though he, like all of us, had frustrations that are common to life and work. He did have a temper and would swear occasionally if he hit his thumb or had a part come loose at the wrong time.Because of some title disputes on the Oakland Avenue property, it was decided to move to  place on 300 West street (originally called Second West, later named Third West). Forrest described  that time: "We had a difficult problem about gaining ownership of our home and it was a blessing on how it turned out, because it was a real mess. The only way we could get our money out of it was to receive it on a trade with another house. We located a home in this manner on 2nd West at 3699 South. ... We had a half acre completely covered with Johnson grass and gopher mounds all over it, but through perseverance and lots of labor we got the ground so it would produce garden produce. I also built a chicken coop and a shop and in part of the shop I fixed it so I could raise some fryers. We were able to  raise our own vegetables and chicken meat. We had water shares for irrigation, so with that much ground we had plenty of water. While we were there, 2nd West was changed to 3rd West and it was made a truck route and a busy street. Besides that, the D. and R. G. (Denver and Rio Grande) railroad tracks were about 300 feet west of 3rd west and the trains would come often. The Roper Yard was close and the engines would really be roaring in front of our house. My wife had a little "what-not" shelf in the corner of the living room and the little trinkets would vibrate off the edge. I was working at EiMac at the time and was working the night shift, so trying to sleep during the day time was really hard to do. While we lived here we remodeled our kitchen and built a root cellar and a storage room above it."He describes the work "we" did to make the ground productive. It really was the work "he" did. My brother and I helped a little. It is amazing what work he did, though. Not only did he produce the normal kinds of vegetables, such as potatoes, tomatoes, corn, etc., he also tried Jerusalem artichokes, celery, okra and even peanuts. The last two varieties did not do well because of the short season. One year he tried to grow horse radish, with was quite successful. The problem was that it was too successful and when he tried to plow it under, it spread through out as a weed.Forrest built sheds and hothouses for support of his garden work. In most places we had a root cellar for storage.The chickens were both of the laying variety, traditional leghorns, and bantam hens with chicks. Those, he let run free, other than to keep the mother hens with chicks under A-frame enclosures to keep them safe from marauding dogs and cats. We also had a few unusual hens that laid odd colored eggs, including green shelled eggs. It was here that he taught me how to kill and pluck and skin chickens. Because of low income generally, we always supplemented our food supply with chicken meat, eggs and vegetables from the garden (as described in his writing).We always took care of our own garbage, wet kitchen garbage being plowed into the ground as fertilizer, along with autumn leaves. Paper garbage was burned in the incinerator and eventually when enough material accumulated, the garbage was taken to the dump. We did not have a lot of packaging because most everything was produced from scratch.One thing I remember about our time at this home was that he acquired an old 1950 DeSoto automobile. True to his abilities and confidence, he went about repairing the transmission on that car. He somehow found another of the same kind and with the parts of both got the car running. The transmission in that car was an unusual variety, called fluid drive or semi-automatic, a transition of sorts between a manual and automatic transmission. It seemed that he could make anything work when he put his mind to it.Around this time we also acquired a tractor from my grandparents and drove it home, slowly along side roads for many hours, accompanied by family driving the family car. At another time, he sold or gave it to the Squires family, who had a farm in Mona, in Juab County. He drove it there as well, the same method,Due to a misunderstanding or error, Forrest lost his job at Eimac. This was actually a fortunate turn of events, because he then started working at Deseret Press, where he worked until his death in 1980. At Deseret Press, a company owned by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Forrest was able to be part of the DMBA health plan (Deseret Mutual Benefit Association). With this insurance, the expense of his serious health problems at the end of his life were covered quite well.In the years 1972 and 1973 Forrest and Arvilla generously offered their small home to take care of Arvilla's parents. Her father, Eddie was with us for a short time, but problems due to old-age dementia made it impossible to keep him there so he had to be placed in a nursing home in Delta where he died in 1972. Her mother, Sarah Delilah stayed with us up until her death in 1973.After a while it was decided to move again. Forrest describes: "We could see that our stay couldn't last much longer at this location, because all the property around us was going commercial and it wouldn't be long before we would be crowded out. We listed the property for sale. We kept trying for about two years, then it finally came. In April of 1975 we sold the place and got a good price out of it. We then had to start again late in life to find a new place to live. Our son Lynn was in Japan on a mission at the time, but we were really impressed to come to Granger to look. The realtor that sold our place wanted to help us find a place. He had several places to show us. We liked each one, but the last one was more what we had been looking for, so we decided to take it. We sure felt like we were guided here. This is the best home we have ever owned...". As usual, he found a place with enough land to do extensive gardening. He worked hard on the soil again, putting kitchen garbage, leaves, gypsum, etc. into the soil making it more fertile. He planted many grape plants, raspberries and some fruit trees as well. It was always important to him to make sure he could provide for his family by physical means independent of his occupational income. This is where they lived when he died in 1980. Health and Nutrition IssuesForrest often had health issues to deal with. After he was married and had a family, he was keen to do things that promoted good health for his family, mainly with respect to diet.As a youth, he grew tall. As a consequence, his feet also grew large. His adult height was six feet five inches though he tried to keep his weight around 200 pounds or a little less. His shoe size was 13 triple E. Because of the difficulty of finding shoes of the correct size, he often had problems with his feet. This caused deformities in his feet which plagued him most of his life. He was discharged from the Army because of foot problems. Also, because of his height, he extended his bed.A few minor, but odd problems affected him in his youth. He told us about how he would entertain his friends by putting nickels in his nostrils, spreading them out. As an adult he always had large nostrils and he blamed it on his youthful foolishness. Also in his appearance, though not caused by anything he did, was the fact that he had only one front tooth. The spacing appeared normal, but if you looked closely, you would see that he only had one central incisor in the top row.Forrest lost his hair around the time he was in the army. He always had some hair around the sides, but was bald on the top. He blamed his hair loss on his army experience, either from the hats he had to wear or the medicines they forced on him. Even though hair was sparse on the top of his head, he had no trouble growing hair on his face. He could easily shave twice a day, and did on days where he had a special occasion in the evening. He even had a nose hair trimmer and used it. One time he could have used the protection of hair on the top of his head. We were visiting Timpanogos Cave. He wore a baseball-type cap on his head as we went through the cave tour. At one point the top of the cave was low and he struck his head on the rough ceiling. The result was a gash on his head, even without tearing the material of the hat he wore.Another minor issue was his profuse perspiration (also inherited by me to some extent). Whatever work he did, regardless of the heat or cold, resulted in streams of water running off his face, down his long nose and off his bald head. He had to make sure he drank a lot and had enough salt in his system to keep steady.Though this is not a health issue, one time they had someone do "color therapy" and suggested that he wear pink shirts. We were pleasantly surprised surprised to see how well he looked in pink shirts.Forrest suffered from a number of more serious health problems. He had two hernia ruptures that had to be taken care of surgically. He also had quite a few problems with his stomach, as mentioned in his work with Maxfield Candy Company and earlier in his mission experiences. He found ways to deal with his problems, either by research or experimentation. He learned that he could control his problem with colitis by not mixing starches and meats in the same meal, so often our meals were either mainly potatoes and starches or proteins and beans and (less often) meats. He also believed that extra amounts of sweets in his diet as he grew up made him more susceptible to these problems. In our home, we had candy and sweets only on special occasions (including when he made his special candy, which was not very often). On Halloween, we only once participated in the Trick-or-treat tradition that I remember. That year Lynn and I were taken around to the homes by friends' families (this was in Park City). I was amazed at the vast amount of candy. I think now that it was half of a grocery sack for the two of us. At home, they gave out pieces of dried pears as treats to visiting children. I am not sure any of the children actually ate them, though. I liked dried pears and apples and considered then better than candy.There were some certain health and diet systems in place in our home. We usually always prepared all our food from scratch, staying away from white or refined foods, especially white sugar or flour.  Prepared cereals were rare in our home, breakfast usually consisting of cooked oatmeal, cracked wheat, even ground millet and some unusual items like that. We boys would look forward to the time that we could go to our grandparents place in Oak City because they had a jar of Kelloggs Corn Flakes from which we could have a special breakfast (even later in the day). We always used honey and raw sugar for sweetening. One rare time that we had "Koolaid" it was made with raw sugar, which gave it an interesting flavor. Drinks were always water, juices and milk, often raw, whole milk. Soda was rare around the house, though we sometimes made home made root beer. Desserts were usually homemade also. Among my favorites were cake with caramel frosting and apple cobbler with pudding sauce. Forrest experimented with making yoghurt. Now I enjoy eating yoghurt, but not then as it was usually plain unsweetened or simply with some fruit or jam. It wasn't until I tasted european yoghurt in Germany that I really came to enjoy it. Another food I hated then, but learned to enjoy later was asparagus. I assume I disliked it as a child because we would not waste any food, even the stringy, tough stalk. Everything was conserved. Food was precious and never wasted. We always had large cans of honey, large blocks of cheese that aged in the cellar, many jars of preserved fruit, juices and tomatoes, and lots of dried beans and grains. Instead of chocolate, we used carob. Nuts were usually raw and unsalted. Sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds were eaten as snacks a lot.Forrest always took good care of his teeth. He almost always had a tooth brush with him and would dry-brush his teeth as he drove sometimes. He always preferred the hardest brushes possible, with natural bristles. His teeth were in good condition, mainly because of his care for them and his nutrition.We walked a lot and were expected to work hard. That and our diet helped us be healthy. We would also have specific fasts (liquids, but no solids) to help promote cleansing and health. Bathing was encouraged without soap as healthier than with soap. This is a practice that I follow to this day. I believe that my skin is much healthier as a result.  We would wash hair with tincture green soap (a pure, natural liquid soap) and a rinse of diluted vinegar water. These all were to promote healthier skin and hair. He took us a few times to a place we called "Stinky Springs", a hot mineral water bath pool between Corrine and Thiokol in Box Elder County. We would soak in the hot sulphury water.In trying to promote better health for the family, Forrest experimented with different kinds of health techniques, foods and supplements. He learned some unusual techniques, including reflexology where he could diagnose and alleviate some ailments by feeling and applying pressure to places on the bottoms of the feet and palms of the hands. Another diagnostic method, called iridology, could show health problems in the appearance of marks in the iris of the eye. One procedure that I really learned to appreciate was Swedish massage. He could really help relieve tension in the back. He taught me a few of his techniques. It takes a fair amount of strength to do it.He grew sprouts of about every variety imaginable, including mung beans, garbanzo beans, soybeans and wheat grass. He also made drinks from carrot juice, beet juice, sprout juice and combinations of juices. He grew comfrey plants and made a drink out the leaves, usually mixed with pineapple juice. We always had some kind of herb teas around, mostly for some health ailment or another. The most common included mint teas, catnip, sage, hops, raspberry leaf, brigham tea, chamomile and rose hips. One health drink that we would use to help fight colds was vinegar and honey, sometimes used to wash down other pills and medicines. One medicine that was particularly distasteful was a combination of cayenne pepper, golden seal and some green herb wetted in a small amount of warm water and washed down with a tall glass of warm vinegar and honey. He often had a handful of pills for us to take, including alfalfa, kelp, liver, garlic, goldenseal, calcium and vitamin C. Goldenseal was useful for curing cankers and stomach problems. Dried cedar gum was used to help promote healthy kidney function.Our family was associated with a family in Centerville. Their health food organization was called the Good Neighbor Co-op. The family's name was Squires. We were at their place a lot, both for health food reasons, quasi-political discussions and also for their cherries. They had wonderful cherries. In those days there were no worms in cherries. We would pick cherries and pay for them, a little extra because of all of the cherries we ate while picking.Meals usually always began with some raw or fresh vegetables, to aid in digestion. Forrest did not believe in drinking along with meals much. Also, drinks that were extra hot or cold were avoided. Ice was seldom used in drinks. He explained that when we were thirsty and hot in the summer, really cold water was not a good idea because it would make the body think it was cold and try to heat up to compensate for it. The herb teas that we would drink would not be overly hot either.Even though there were a lot of foods and nutritional aids that were distasteful, I did enjoy many of the foods they made. We usually had homemade bread and foods made with natural and unrefined components. We always had fruits dried and bottled, using only honey to sweeten. Dried fruits were never chemically treated. For lunches in school, we usually took simple sandwiches along with a bag of raw sunflower seeds and raisins, sometimes with peanuts, usually also raw. One thing I enjoyed more than others was candied pumpkin seeds, sweetened with a healthy sweet coating. We would also enjoy molasses taffy and horehound cough drops.Because we always raised chickens, we often ate eggs or foods made with eggs. One interesting custom was having cream puffs and home made pudding (using many eggs) for breakfast or other meals. This meal would help us use up our extra eggs. We did not eat meat much, but had chicken more often than other meats. I really enjoyed the home made fried chicken.Forrest had some nervous problems in his life. Arvilla said that she noticed some nervous "tics" in his mannerisms and determined that she would help him in his life to relieve stress and help him. Later in life, he had a noticeable slight palsy or trembling. Another condition that was well known was his ability to fall asleep readily. At church or when he would sit down at home, he would quickly fall asleep where he sat. It did not lake long for him to fall into a deep sleep.The most serious health problem in Forrest's life was his electrocution in Park City in 1959. The accident was described earlier in this writing. Here is his description of his recovery. If you are squeamish, you may want to just skim over it. "For six months I was treated for this, and at no time could I get any water on it. When taking a bath, I had to hang that foot out of the tub. After a few weeks, the doctor dug out all that burned dead flesh out of the wound. Then it began to heal. The new tissue would grow up in what they called granulation in little bumps all over the wound and it would come up above the surface of the skin. The doctor would take silver nitrate and burn the new tissue till it was below the surface of the skin. It would heal over a little and then the tissue would grow up again and they would have to repeat the process. He had to do that several times. Finally it closed over and all this time the nerves were growing back in the area. When ever I would have to stand of sit for any length of time it would just ache and throb till I could barely stand it, so I would have to get up and walk around. I also had trouble running the tractors on the farm. I had the same problem (aching, throbbing pain), so I built a rack on the side so I could prop my leg up so I could keep it elevated. It took a good six months before it was completely healed over, but after that the slightest bump would cause terrible pain. Every time I would get near electric power lines I would get that awful sensation."He carried the scar from this accident for the rest of his life. The burn area was always a dark purple color. He did not complain of pain or much problem with it, but in the end, when he was diagnosed as having leukemia, we supposed that the electrocution could have contributed to the cancer.Towards the end of 1979 he had some problems that started with weakness, possibly anemia. As things got progressively worse, he was admitted the hospital for tests. While there, his conditions worsened and he experienced a lot of pain. The doctors were at a loss to diagnose his problem. He had a lot of internal bleeding and pain around his chest and lungs. They made a number of painful tests. Finally after quite a while, they discovered that he had a rare form of leukemia, referred to as Acute Myelocytic Leukemia. He was treated for this and returned home for a few days in February 1980. Shortly after that he experienced a massive brain hemorrhage. Arvilla was with him and had to take him to the hospital, he being in extreme headache pain. By the time they reached the emergency entrance, he was unconscious. He died shortly after that. There are specific details of this experience in several writings at the appendices of this history, one was written by Forrest as he was in the hospital. Music, Humor and RecreationForrest was an avid musician at heart. He had a beautiful voice and used it often, singing in church, at cultural events and at home. He and Arvilla performed in many wards and church functions such as dinners. Among his well known songs were "Open the Gates of the Temple", "The Holy City", "The Lord's Prayer", "You'll Never Walk Alone" and "Old Man River." He had a booming low bass voice as part of his wide vocal range. We were always in ward choirs, wherever we lived. Before he was married he was a member of the Orpheus club in Salt Lake City. During his mission, he sang for investigators and in conferences. He supported music at home. We always had a piano, first an old black heavy upright, then a lighter-weight console model, an ESTEY. He bought the piano for us to use and paid for piano lessons for my brother and I, even with his small salary.An often used phrase in our home today is "Buchanan humor". We believe that it was inherited from  Forrest who had a dry wit. He loved to tell corny jokes, usually over and over, but they were still funny because of the way he told them with a straight face. He loved to see people laugh. Here are some examples:On hearing a complaint of dirt on or around food, he would say, " You know, you eat over a ton of dirt every day."He would stretch one large foot heel on the toe of the other foot and exclaim, " Here is an example of when two feet make a yard.""Why to birds fly south for the winter? Because it is too far to walk."When a food was particularly good, he would say that it was ñmustyî. Then with a smile, ñMusty have more.îHe wasnÍt as much the inventor of particular jokes but he remembered the ones that he enjoyed and used them in opportune moments to make people happy.We played games together as a family. With there being only two children, it differed somewhat from what we have now for family activities. One time that we remember with fondness was when we were playing bingo while eating popcorn. For the markers for the bingo squares we used raw, hard dry red beans. We were having a great time with much laughter and at one point with popcorn in one hand and beans in the other, he accidentally filled his mouth with the wrong contents. We also played Flinch, chinese checkers, chess, Touring, Treasure Hunt, Finance (similar to Monopoly) and Cootie. We would stay at our grandparents' home in Oak City for New Years Eve and play Yahtzee until midnight.Forrest loved children. We had a lot of fun together. He loved to toss me up in the air. Unfortunately, I did not let him do it much because of my fear of heights. He did get to play with a couple of grandchildren, though, before we moved to Illinois. You could always see the delight in his eyes when children were around.We went out to movies occasionally. This happened usually on Hallowe'en nights as an alternative to trick-or-treating. On these nights we usually went to drive-in movies. We always had a television, though Forrest did not watch it much, preferring to use his time in gardening and  yard work. He was often out until dark working. Sundays were a day of rest, though, and we spent them together.We liked to go camping, especially in the local mountains and up Oak Creek canyon. Sometimes we would go rock hunting or pine nut hunting with the Wilcox family, Forrest's sisterÍs family. We enjoyed traveling places together, usually to visit relatives, especially grandparents. A number of times while traveling, we would play math games to help us children learn to add and multiply in our heads. Sometimes we would count cars or count the different kinds of gas stations along the road (there were no freeways then, we traveled through all the towns). One year we took a vacation down to Northern Arizona to visit Mesa Verde and Arvilla's double cousin, Verl Jacobson in Tuba City, Arizona. We were fascinated with the Indian homes and communities, especially the Hopi village on top of the mesa at Oraibi.Holidays were wonderful. We usually had a live Christmas tree, sometimes a juniper/cedar tree from the local deserts. Christmas presents were modest. Often we children had been saving up dimes in a dime "kitty" and were taken to the stores in Sugarhouse or Cottonwood Mall to buy trinkets at the Walgreens or other stores there. Music, again, was part of our lives with the singing of traditional carols around the piano during the season.Depth of Character, Love of the Lord and of His Family Forrest was a man of quiet kindness. As far as I could tell he never harbored ill feelings towards anyone. He did have disagreements and was at odds with a few people at times, but it never was manifested in anyway that would hurt anyone. He lost his job at Eimac in a way that really distressed him. He was impeccably honest in everything. I remember that the company was looking to make cutbacks in workforce at the time, but the reason they gave for his dismissal had to do with an accusation of him taking company property out of the building. He assured us that it was just a piece of tape that was stuck to his clothing.He always taught us to obey the laws of the land. One day I was riding with him downtown in Salt Lake City. I believe that I was about eight years old at the time. I pointed out to him that he had better be careful as it was Friday the 13th. After making a U-turn in the street (mid-block), a police car pulled us over to give him a ticket for the illegal U-turn. He was embarrassed by this and used it as an opportunity to teach me about honoring the law.Wherever we lived, in all our homes, we always had family prayer. There was no exception to this. Since there were usually only 4 of us, we each had our turns quite often. Sometimes he was busy late at night with work in the garden or yard, we always had prayer before bed. It was natural for us to pray at meals as well.We read scriptures, but not usually as a family. We were encouraged to read individually, though. Most of the time we were home, other than Sundays, he was out working in the yard or in an out building, so we did not do much together in the evenings with him. Forrest usually kept a copy of the Book of Mormon with him as he went to work. Later I remember it being one of those light blue paperback Book of Mormon issues. I remember seeing his well worn missionary triple combination scriptures around the house a lot. We always had the Improvement Era and other church magazines around the house, especially in the ñreading roomî keeping company with the Readers Digest and Guideposts magazines on the clothes hamper by the toilet.Forrest's cousin Golden Buchanan was acquainted with then apostle Spencer W. Kimball and was involved with the creation of the Indian Student Placement Program, where children from the Indian reservations were given an opportunity to live in our homes and enjoy the benefits of education in our schools. We were not reimbursed for our expenses. We participated in this program four years (not consecutively). Our children were Luella Mahoney from Peach Springs, Arizona, Gordon Fulwilder from Scottsdale, Arizona and Glen Juste from Sacaton, Arizona. This was typical of the generosity and service Forrest was willing to give to others and the Lord.We did not always have family home evening, but we did a lot together as a family over the years and quite often had our home evening. For a while we kept a journal of our family home evenings. These entries show quite a bit about our family life and his leadership during that time.Here are a couple of examples: Lesson 3, Jan. 31, 1965 (in Forrest's handwriting) We began by asking each one of the things we were thankful for. Mother said we were thankful for going to church and being able to get home safely and be united together. Daddy said he was thankful for our lights & food, good health and strength. Joseph and Lynn & Gordon each said what they were thankful for.Joseph gave the opening prayer.Lynn gave us a passage in D & C 76:24 - We are our Heavenly Father's children.From the Prophet Brigham Young, is that we lived in our Heavenly father's house, and knew him well.Moses - immortality and eternal life of man.Happiness would be living with our Heavenly Father. Requirements to receive the heirs of the kingdom. If we wish to know God we must [be] like him.We should face up to our mistakes and always tell the truth. You can never be near our Heavenly Father until we admit our mistakes to doing wrong. We shouldn't judge other people for our mistakes.1st step - recognizing the fault2nd step - to take the blame.Joseph - Mosiah 2:41Lynn - Moses 1:39Gordon - Romans 8:16-17Verses to memorizeevery one participatedClosing prayer - Lynn BuchananLesson 13 , probably in Spring 1966 (in Forrest's handwriting)Op Song - Guide me to TheeOp Prayer - LynnThe resurrected Savior shows his Love.We sang - I know that My redeemer LivesRecited in unison many Scriptures.We sang - Lord Accept Our True DevotionWe sang - Come Ye Children of the LordAssignment for next 24 hours. How we would act if Jesus were in our home. Beginning immediately try to act as if the Savior were in our home.Closing prayer Joseph We had other times when we also played games, had planning meetings, etc. In the notes for June 13, 1967 we talked about getting our home ready to sell it, and later in that meeting, we talked about plans for a family vacation to New Mexico or Arizona.It is clear that Forrest saw to it that we had these times together as a family, to learn the gospel together, to enjoy each other and to plan together.I was often privileged to accompany Forrest as we went "Ward Teaching". He was faithful in visiting his families and took the opportunity to teach me gospel principles. I remember the care he showed to the different families we visited. He was a Seventy most of the time I was with him so most of his visiting was to members in inactive or part-member homes.We always attended our church meetings. Forrest was often called upon to give prayers in meetings. He was not comfortable speaking or taking charge. In his last years, he served in the High Priests Group leadership and was more publicly involved. He did teach some classes and worked with people on genealogy. In a few wards, he also worked on a project where they tracked the temple work people did, representing each as leaves and branches on a symbolic tree. He painstakingly recorded the loving work the people of the ward did in the temples. He acquired a love of family history and genealogical research and spent many hours doing the work. He inherited some work done by his grandmother, Annie Isadore Roundy Davis. He took me to the Genealogical Library a number of times and taught me a lot. One of my favorite times was after I returned home from my mission in Germany and we did German research together, finding a lot of information about our ancestors in the area of Siegen, Germany. After his marriage, he helped Arvilla a lot with her research, even going to the effort of learning the Danish language enough to do Danish research (also for his Danish ancestry). Later in their lives, even in the week he was home from chemotherapy in February 1980, they did Danish family records name extraction work together for the church.Forrest loved the temples. When I went to the temple for the first time for my Endowments, he was with me, not only that time, but the following Saturday he spent the day with me as we went through 3 sessions in the day.Forrest was grounded in the love of the gospel from an early age. When he received his patriarchal blessing in 1947, a number of those principles were focused and strengthened: "Thou wast born of goodly parents and have been taught the principles of truth from thy childhood for which blessing you are truly grateful. Thou art one of those choice spirits who was faithful and obedient in the spirit world and kept your first estate, by being faithful and obedient in this life you will keep your second estate, and you have the promise that you shall have glory added upon your head for ever and ever.""I bless thee that you may be prospered in your labors, that you may not want for the necessities of life, and that because of your kindness and consideration for others you shall learn from your own experiences that the way to be happy is to make others happy, and you shall have the gift and ability to make friends, and I promise thee that you shall never lack for friends in time of need.""If it is thy desire, and thy faith fail thee not, the day will come when you shall be given a companion in life of one of the choice daughters of Zion, and I bless thee that love, peace and harmony may abide in your home. In so far as it is in the providence of the Lord I pray that you may enjoy the blessing of fatherhood and that through the blessings of the holy temple your loved ones will be yours for time and all eternity. These are great and wonderful blessings that are found no where else in the world except in the Temple of our God."In my blessing, I was told of my parent's faithfulness: "Thou hast another responsibility, -- inasmuch as thy parents were faithful in the pre-earth life with thee then it is thy responsibility to bring joy to them through living a good life for they have the right to a faithful family, and it is thy duty, therefore, to be faithful and to bring the blessings unto them which they have deserved."Life usually brings surprises, disappointments, frustrations and even unexpected pleasures. Forrest's life was very much that way. He faced life with a trust in his Heavenly Father that carried him through the many turns in his life. One time he wrote about his feelings concerning life. This writing showed a seldom expressed feeling of frustration, both in his inability to serve and help others as he wished as well as a sadness over the trends towards wickedness in the world, especially among the Latter-day Saints. Here are some excerpts from that writing (dated January 22, 1971): [I am] grateful for the inspiring thoughts that came in my mind this morning.How many of us criticize our Bishop or his counselors?How many of us have hatred for our neighbors?Do we realize how sacred the voting is in the church? We are given our free agency to raise our right hand to the square. That is an authentic vote in the affirmative for the person involved.How many of us criticize the decisions made on this individual, after we have voted for this person.We should attend every meeting that we are assigned to, because in some meeting wisdom will be given out that is so important for us.When a man is called to the office of Bishop, he is given the power of discernment, in other words he is given the inspiration to make the right choice, providing he is in tune with the right spirit....Satan is really in his glory in our ward.He is in his glory when he sees people with such hatred and animosity that we have in our midst.Just remember we have got to overcome the world. This world will pass away, the wicked will burn as stubble. We can be in this world, but we don't have to be of this world. How many of you are of this world?...I've had such a strong desire to help some one in their genealogical research, but I guess no one needs any help. I am really helping myself, though. With my persistence at the library, inspiring thoughts have come to me, both at home, at work, and at the library, to guide me in my search for the right choice pertaining to my direct line. This is one of the privileges that is given to us, if we are faithful, and persistent in our quest for help in guiding us to the right choice on our direct line for our ancestors...We are going through trying times.We are all being tested, or going to be tested.If we can withstand the buffetings of Satan, this will be a great stride in our favor. In a diary entry in April 1978 he expressed his enjoyment of the gospel in his life: This morning at 5:25 I left for work at the Deseret Press to get the TV Guide out for Idaho. We got it completed at 2:00 P.M. and while returning home I listened to the Primary Children's chorus singing for the commencement of the afternoon session of general conference. It was such a joy to hear them sing. We enjoyed so much the conference session and the emphasis on keeping the commandments and committing ourselves to service to our fellow men. There were changes made where beginning in 1979 that there would only be two stake conferences each year. Lynn and I and Merrill Cruser went over to listen to General Priesthood Mtg. It was a very inspiring meeting. They had combined prospective elders of the Salt Lake Valley that could and would sing to render the music for the priesthood meeting. It was a real thrill to hear them. Forrest D Buchanan, a modest man of talents, kindness, aware of his weaknesses as well as his strengths, and was a man who loved his family and was loved of them. His life was filled with joys as well as with many unexpected turns and challenges, and that life ended too quickly. His grandchildren have not been privileged to enjoy his humor, counsel, nurturing, strength and love, except as we can pass it on to them. I like to think of him by remembering his hands. He had great hands, large hands that did a lot of work, but hands of gentleness and giving, too. With those hands he gave priesthood and fathers blessings. I received all ordinances from him. Those hands tell the life of a good man, a man of hard work, quiet service and love. Someday we will be able to hold those hands and hug him and be hugged by him again.*Appendix A - Life Timeline7 March 1918 - Birth, Venice, Sevier County, Utah, USA7 April 1918 - Blessed in Venice Ward by J. C. Cowley6 June 1926 - Baptized by Wayne Christian, Richfield, Utah7 June 1926 - Confirmed by A. W. Buchanan6 July 1930 - Received the Aaronic Priesthood, ordained a Deacon, by A. Lester Buchanan21 April 1932 - Received certificate for completing 2 years of Junior Seminary 14 April 1933 - Received certificate for completing 3 years of Junior Seminary1934 (probably mid-year) - Family moved to Logan 19 May 1935 - Ordained a Priest by Madison Thomas - Logan 5th Ward, Cache Stake 5 February 1936 - certificate from scout troop 105 for 4 years of service - by Cache Valley Council BSA.1938, probably early in the year - Received first place (grand champion) for his Chester White hog16 February 1941 - Ordained an Elder by Floyd Stohl - Tremonton second Ward, Bear River Stake12 March 1941 - Inducted into the Army as part of the Garland Utah National Guard22 March 1941 - In San Luis Obispo, California18 October 1942 - In Fort Lewis, WashingtonAutumn 1943 - end of 1945 - Lived in TremontonEnd of 1945 - moved to Idaho Falls, Idaho17 July 1946 - Received Patriarchal Blessing from John W. Telford, Idaho Falls6 February 1947 - Received mission call to serve in New England States10 March 1947 - Ordained a Seventy by Oscar A. Kirkham12 March 1947 - Mission Certificate16 March 1947 - Left for New England, Served in:	New Haven, Connecticut	Sanford, Maine	Bennington, Vermont	Rutland/Poultney, Vermont15 December 1948 - Released from missionEarly 1949 - Moved to Tremonton, UtahLate summer 1949 - Moved to Salt Lake City, Utah26 January 1950 - Married in Salt Lake Temple by President Robert D. YoungJanuary 1950 - Lived at 1990 South Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utahmid 1950 - Moved to 134 A Street, Salt Lake City, UtahApril 1951 - Moved to 750 East 4200 South, Murray, UtahLater in 1951 - Moved to Wilford Stake Farm, near Saratoga Springs, Lehi, Utah26 May 1953 - Moved to 8119 South 2700 West, West Jordan, Utah27 February 1957 - Moved to 18 West Oakland Avenue, South Salt Lake, UtahMay 1958 - Moved to Gorgoza, near Kimball's Junction (Park City area), Utah9 March 1959 - Commercial Trades Institute diploma awarded for Television ServicingSummer 1959 (probably) - ElectrocutionDecember 1959 - Moved back to 18 West Oakland Avenue31 December 1959 - Released from stake mission11 June 1965 - Received high school diploma (Salt Lake City - Evening High School)15 May 1966 - Ordained a High Priest by Floyd H. HurstSecond half 1967 - Moved to 3699 South 300 West1975 - Moved to 3986 South 3750 West, Granger, Utah28 February 1980 - Died in Salt Lake City, UtahAppendix B - Various Personal Histories and Diary Entries (Excluding Mission Journal) Forrest Buchanan - Autobiography (undated)Personal HistoryMy grandfather was a great friend of the Indians. He served many times as interpreter. he was called Unca Kibe, meaning Red Mountain Boy, by the Indians. He had a beautiful team of horses, and on a night an Indian stole his team. When the other Indians saw the team, they knew how it belonged to and made him return it to grandfather.During my youth I spent a lot of times with others of my age spearing carp in the Sevier River. We would only have a shirt on and with a pitch fork we go up the river and spear the fish and throw them out on the bank, and also did lots of fishing. We played lots of games, like Run Sheep Run, Hide and Seek, etc. One Christmas I received a bicycle and soon learned how to ride it. [I] had a billy goat and taught it to pull me in a cart. I also trained a dog to pull a cart. One time I was giving my sister a ride and the dog took after a cow, he really gave her a ride. The axle broke on the cart and she was dumped out in some weeds. It didn't hurt her, just [gave her] a good scare. I had a saddle horse at one time, and it was a real special horse. It had more sense than any horse I['d] ever seen. You could put a six or seven year old on its back and they couldn't make it go faster than a slow walk, then with a ten year old maybe a trot. An adult could really make it go. One time my father was going down to the farm (everyone lived in town and had their farms surrounding the town) and he stopped to talk to one of my uncles. He was still on the horse. He had been there for a little while. When he went to leave, the horse wouldn't move. My dad got really out of sorts with the horse. Just then another neighbor came running towards them yelling not to move that horse, because standing between the horse's front legs was a little boy with an arm around each leg. So the horse was real special. As soon as they got the boy away from the horse he moved, so Dad was really sorry of mistreating the horse.I helped my Dad in butchering animals - beef, mutton, pigs and chickens. I even learned how to skin a pig (not scrape it).Our farm in Venice was 40 acres and our water supply was very meager. Sometimes our crops would only get one or two waterings and it was so scarce that we would nurse it through every furrow and not waste a drop. In harvesting our alfalfa hay, we would pile it with a dump rake then pitch it on the wagon. There was a Vee rope * on the wagons. We would stack the hay on these ropes. My dad would pitch it on and I would tromp the hay and fall in the holes in the middle then haul it to the stack. There would be two heavy ropes on the stack with a loop on each end rope this loop would be fastened to the knot on the Vee rope on the wagon. The ropes would be as long as the stack. Then there was a steel cable with a hook on one end and a clevis on the other end. We would throw the cable over the load of hay and hook it into the loop of the Wee rope, then take the horses off the wagon and hook them to the clevis on the cable. My Dad would be on the stack holding the ends of the ropes anchored to a pitchfork stuck in the hay, and with the poser of the team we could roll that load of hay all the way up the stack. Then release the ropes and pull them out of the hay. Then after the hay was spread out and leveled off we would reset the ropes and cable and go get another load of hay. Occasionally the load of hay would be stacked one sided and it would tip over and I got buried a few times with hay.We would cut the ripened grain in bundles then haul them and stack them in a round stack then the threshing machine would be set up so that the bundles could be fed heads first into the feeder, the grain would be separated from the chaff and straw and the straw would be blown into a stack. We had lots of fun on these straw stacks, sliding down.We had some milk cows and would milk them by hand night and morning. My dad graduated from the eighth when he was in school and won a scholarship to the University of Utah but was never able to utilize this scholarship. So when I was in my sophomore year of High School, my dad had a desire to go into Forest Ranger Service, but when he applied, the requirements called for a High School diploma (which he didn't have) because he graduated from the eighth grade. So he did something that seemed like an impossible task. He went back to High School and tool all the subjects for the 15 credit requirement for graduation all in one year. Then we moved up to Logan, Utah and started college at the Utah State Agricultural College. He spent a couple of years training for a Forest Ranger then found out there were no openings.I want to back track a bit - while we were still living in Venice, They had Farmers Encampment up on the campus of USAC and families would gather there and have real enjoyable outings and stay for a few days. I remember that old sardine dugway between Brigham City and Logan. It sure was a dangerous dugway. I also remember the awful dugway going to Fish Lake and how steep the climb was and the old Model T cars, where they had the gravity flow for the gasoline, that they would have to turn the cars around and back up the steep distances.Now continuing at Logan. When Dad found out he couldn't get in the Forest Service we moved out to North Logan and again took up farming. We stayed there a little over a year and bought some property west of Tremonton. We lived in a home that was built after the style of some Iowa's people that moved out here. They were square frame buildings about three stories high. One year in this location we had a litter of pigs. They were the white haired variety, can't recall the name, but anyway they had made a remarkable growth and the Ag teacher saw them and insisted that we enter them into the Ogden Livestock show of 1938, so we did. They weighed an average of 260# at the age of six months. There were six in the litter. Well, I took first prize in both the Junior and open market, and champion in the Junior division and Grand Champion of the whole show in the swine department. Swine was selling for 6 cents a pound at the time and these sold for 35 cents a pound so we were sure elated over the whole experience. I never had the experience at showmanship so I only got fifth place in that category, but it was a grand experience anyway.My mother was an excellent cook and candy maker. For many years she would enter her candy, bread and pastries in the county fair and would take the blue ribbons on all her goodies.In 1945 I left home and went to work up in Idaho. I worked on a dry farm in Cleveland. Then later on I worked in the potatoes in Blackfoot, then  in a grocery store in Idaho Falls. While there I did a lot of Temple work.I was called on my Mission while I was in Idaho Falls. A man by the name of Walter Clark from Squirrel, Idaho who was a temple worker offered to send me on my mission, which I accepted. I was called to the New England States Mission in March 1947. I labored was in Bridgeport and New Haven, Conn. Yale University is in New Haven and we would go over to Yale to take our showers. About this time, S. Dilworth Young was called as mission president and I was transferred up Sanford, Maine. Pres. Young got permission from the state officials to do tracting without purse or script, and street meetings. Forrest D Buchanan (undated - apparently some notes for himself to follow in giving a history)I was born on 7 March 1918 in Venice, Sevier County, Utah to Archie Earl Buchanan and Florene Davis. My father was born in Colonia Dublan, Chihauha, Mexico on 25 March 1892 to Archibald Waller Overton Buchanan and Caroline Sophia Sorensen. My mother was born 28 April 1896 in Kanarra, Iron Co., Utah to Henry William Davies and Annie Isadore Roundy. I was baptized on 26 June 1926 by Wayne Christensen in Richfield, Sevier Co. Utah and was confirmed a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints by Archibald Walter Buchanan 27 June 1926, I received my patriarchal blessing in Idaho Falls on   by John W. Telford.When we had a tip over with the old Ford in MonroeWent to Fish Lake on the Dugway went hunting - went fishingHad my first pony - my first bicycle.Fell out of a swing and got the breath knocked out of me at Cowleys, got sunburned fishing and spearing fish in Sevier River.Got covered up in the hay - and in tip overs.Went on the mountain to look after the sheep and we both got sick on egg sandwiches.I herded sheep during the summer along the streets and canal banks and railroad - topped and thinned beetsWent up to the sand ledges for Easter - tromped wool with Dad sheared. Took a picture of two lone sheep alone Forrest Buchanan - Autobiography    (written 1978)As for my roots: 16 generations back, one of my ancestors named Sir Walter Buchanan married Lady Isabel Stewart in 1443, and through the marriage, I can trace my ancestors to all the Kings of England, Scotland and the Roman Empire. Now five generations farther back there was a property near Loch Lomond in Scotland that was named Buchanan. And an ancestor by the name of Gilbert MacCausland took the name of the property as his Sir name. This happened in the year of 1025 A.D. . From here seven generations back there was an ancestor by the name of "Anselan O'Cathain O'Bocain, which became anglicized to Buchanan. His son was named John MacAnselan (MacCausland), and from each ancestor down to Gilbert (who took the name Buchanan), took the title of Laird of Buchanan. Then from Anselan O'Cathain O'Bocain my ancestors continued through all the Monarchs of Ireland for sixty five generations. Then from here there is a direct line back to Noah.Now seven generations from Sir Walter Buchanan, my ancestors name was George Buchanan and he married Elizabeth Leckie about 1590. Two of his sons moved to Ireland for religious freedom. One was also named George and he married Elizabeth Mayne in 1675. They had four sons. They settled in Tyrone Co., Ireland near Omagh. He had a son Thomas, my direct line he moved to Donegal Co., Ire. He had a son William, and his children came to America. He had one son John who remained in Ireland and married Jane Russell. He had a son John, who married Nellie Reid. He had a son John, who married Nancy Ann Bach in 1812.Nancy ann's parents were Harmon Bach and his wife was Martha or Margaret. His parents were from Germany, the town of Freudenberg, in the Nassau-Siegen area (central Germany) and they trace back to Thuringia (East Germany) where Johann Sebastian Bach was from.This John, who married Nancy Ann Bach, he with his wife heard of Mormonism and joined the Church and moved to Nauvoo. He suffered many hardships and privations, and he died in Lima, Illinois in 1839, leaving his wife with eight children to care for. When the Saints were driven from Nauvoo, Nancy Ann with her children left also on Ox team covered wagon. Her oldest son Eugene helped as much as he could. When they arrived in Utah, they were sent south to Manti. Some of the brethren in town built a dugout in the hillside for Grandmother and her children to live in. My Great Grandmother lived in Manti the rest of her life. She died in 1884. Most of her children stayed there. Her son Archibald Waller Overton Buchanan, my Grandfather, when he got married he moved to Sevier County, to the town of Glenwood. He lived during the polygamy period. He had four wives. They got along extremely well. While they were living in Glenwood the town practiced the United Order for quite a number of years, and were very successful in their endeavors. My Grandfather's  fourth wife was my Grandmother. Her name was Caroline Sophia Sorensen. Both of her parents came from Denmark from the island of Sjelland near Holbaek. She and her parents and most of her brothers and sisters joined the Church in Denmark. They suffered much persecution, so they migrated to America then to Utah. The children from the four wives totaled 27, my father being the last and he had a twin sister. He died two years ago, 5 August 1976.My Father married Florene Davis, they were married 7 Feb 1917, and I was their first child. I have four sisters and two brothers and they are all living. My birthplace was Venice, Sevier, Utah 7 March 1918.I was baptized 26 June 1926 in the Stake Tabernacle in Richfield, Utah. I attended Grade School in Venice, and Junior High in Richfield and the first two years of High School in Richfield. The second two years in Logan, Utah.The town of Venice has the Sevier River winding through the center of the town. I used to have a lot of fun around this river. We could swim, fish and wade. Sometimes we would be only clad in a shirt and with a pitchfork we would go up the river and spear fish, mostly carp, and throw them out on the bank. It brings back fond memories.My father always had a lot of sheep while in Venice, and every Spring they would have to be sheared. My father had his own shearing outfit and he would shear them and I would tie fleeces and tromp them in those huge wool sacks. They were three feet in diameter and about ten feet long. There was a scaffold that the sacks could be hung on. We had a metal ring, just the diameter of the sacks, then by folding the top over the ring, and fasten it with a few nails, then the wool could be tossed in, then I would climb in and tromp it tight and hard. We would poke small quantities of wool in the corners at the bottom, then tie the corners to form handles to maneuver them around when loading them on the trucks or wagons. My father would take his shearing outfit to all the farmers around town, who had sheep and shear all their sheep. So I had lots of experience of tromping wool. During the summer days when not in school, I would herd a small band of sheep, about thirty or forty head. All along the roads, canal banks, railroad tracks, for them to graze. I had a bird dog with me.  He loved to chase sticks, and would always bring them back so he could run again.  The only way he could scare the sheep was if I threw the stick in the middle of the sheep.  He would scare them, but all he was interested in was the stick.  I had another dog who was part Collie and part shepherd, one ear would stand up the other would fall down but he would tear the flesh of the sheep.  So I took a tin can, and cut both ends out of it, and wired it on his head over his nose.  This way he could scare the sheep without hurting them.I built a cart with shavs on the side and made a harness for the dog, and trained him to pull the cart. I had a lot of enjoyment with this dog. One time I was giving my sister a ride in the cart. We got near some cows and he took after them. He really gave my sister a ride. The cart went over a bump, and threw her out, and before I got the dog stopped, the cart was a wreck.We had a real special riding horse. You could put a small child on his back, and the horse would walk real slow, then put a six or eight year old on and they could make him walk fast, then put a teenager on and they could make him trot. Only an adult could make him go fast. One day as my father was going down to the farm, he stopped and talked to one of my uncles along the way. When they got through with their visit, Dad tried to move the horse, but he wouldn't budge, then someone came running and said that a small boy was standing between the horse's front legs, with an arm around each leg. The horse didn't move until the child was removed.I went on several deer hunts with my father and friends and relatives, and on many fishing trips in the mountains, especially when we went up on the mountain range to check the cattle or the sheep. In the late spring the wild flowers would cover whole hillsides in the most beautiful array of colors, really a sight to behold. On one occasion in the mountains, after we had checked on the cattle, we decided to go fishing. It was late afternoon. We were having such good luck that it started to get dark on us before we started for camp. Somehow we took the wrong fork of the stream and wound up in an area we weren't acquainted with, and we became lost. We spent several hours trying to find our way out, but to no avail. So Dad started to holler as loud as he could. He soon got hoarse, but someone heard us and started to holler back. We finally got to their camp about eleven o' clock at night, and found that we were about five miles from our camp. It was quite an experience to remember.We always had a variety of animals around the farm, and when we needed meat for the family we would kill what ever we needed. So I learned from my Dad how to butcher animals, and chickens, and also how to cut and wrap for freezing. I learned many times how to scald and scrape hogs. I even learned how to skin a pig and that's quite an experience, but it can be done, for when you get through you don't have the rind to bother with.We had a 40 acre farm in Venice, and were able to raise hay and grain and sugar beets, but there was a real water shortage. We had to utilize every drop, sometimes there would only be one watering for all the summer's hay crop. Every type of crop had to be furrowed off so the benefit of the irrigation could be reached as far as possible.In harvesting our alfalfa hay, after it was cut, we would pile it with a dump rake. Then after it was cured and dry we would haul it loose on a hay rack. All we had for wagons were the old iron tire wagons. We had a unique way of stacking our hay. We had what we called a Vee rope. This rope was about an inch and a half in diameter and it was long enough to cross the wagon twice. It would be placed on the wagon in the shape of a vee, with a loop on the vee side and on the ends a knot. Then the hay would be stacked on the rope and tromped. When we got a good size load on we would haul it to the stack, and there on the stack we would have two heavy ropes as long as we wanted to make the stack. Each rope had a loop on the end, so they could be attached to the knots on the Vee rope under the load of hay. Then we had a steel cable that was twice as long as the stack. The cable has a hook on it. We throw the cable over the load of hay and hook it in the loop on the Vee rope. Then I would take the team of horses off the wagon and take them around behind the stack and hook on the cable. Dad would take the pitch fork and stick it in the hay and wrap the other ends of the long ropes around the pitch fork handle to anchor the ropes. So while Dad was holding the ropes, I with the team would roll the load of hay right up the stack wherever he wanted it. Then he would release the ropes and I would pull them free. Then after the hay was leveled out I would have the ropes and cable ready to be placed on the stack for the next load, then hitch the team up and repeat the process. We could build stacks thirty to forty feet high and sixty to seventy feet long. In the winter time, when we feed the hay we had a hay knife that we could cut a section off the end, then as that was used down to the ground, then we could start a new cut and so on. We cut all our grain with a binder with it cut this way it would be in bundles. Then when the grain was dry we would haul it and stack it in round stacks about twenty feet high. Then the threshing machine would come and they would pitch the bundles in the machine. After the grain was separated, the straw was blown out into a stack. As kids we sure had a lot of fun on these straw stacks.While we were living in Venice, they had what was called the Farmers Encampment, which was held on campus of the Utah State Agricultural College at Logan. There were farmers from throughout the State that gathered there, driving their old cars. It was a real experience. They furnished all the buttermilk you could drink. There were lots of activities and games of all kinds and gatherings for the parents. One thing that I vividly remember was that the old Model T Fords had gravity feed gas and on some of those steep dugways, they would have to be turned around and backed up the hill to get to our destination.It wasn't long after this that Dad wanted to try out for a Forest Ranger, so after my Sophomore year we moved to Logan, Utah, and Dad went to College to train for the Forest Service. He went for two years then found there were no openings. So we moved out to North Logan and rented a farm. We lived there about a year and a half. In the meantime Dad spent a lot of time searching up through Idaho and Northern Utah for a piece of ground to buy. He finally located an eighty acre farm in West Tremonton and bought it for 8,000 dollars. It had a big home on it, also a barn, granary and other small buildings. Dad got a loan from the Federal Land Bank. We were there two or three years, and one spring we had a litter of pigs. They were pure white, they had made a remarkable gain in weight. They were six months old and they averaged two hundred and fifty pounds each. Well, the Ag teacher was out to our farm one day and he saw those pigs, and said that we just had to get them in the stock show. (The Ogden Livestock Show was just starting.) So we took him up on it and entered them in the livestock show. I took first place in the Junior division and the open in both the single pig and the pen of three, and Champion of the Junior Division and Grand Champion of the whole show in the swine department. This happened in 1938. There were six pigs in the litter.In 1945 I left home and went to work in Idaho on a dry farm in Cleveland, just above Preston. Then later on I worked in the potatoes in Blackfoot, then  in a grocery store in Idaho Falls. I did a lot of Temple work while there, and I was called on my Mission also in Idaho Falls. A dear friend named Walter Clark, who was a temple worker and had a farm in Squirrel, Idaho offered to send me on my mission which I accepted. I was called to the New England States Mission. I went in the Mission Home in March 1947. The first place I labored was in Bridgeport, Conn., then New Haven, Conn. Yale University was only a block away. We would go there and take our shower when needed. William H. Reeder was my Mission President for about three months. S. Dilworth Young replaced him. We had the privilege of working under his leadership. Soon after this I was transferred to Sanford, Maine. While there Pres. Young got permission from state officials to hold street meetings and to go country tracting without purse or scrip. This was a new experience that we had read about, but never thought we would have a chance to try it out. Up until now we spent all our tracting time in the cities going from house to house, but now we were assigned to go out in the country, depending solely on the people. In making preparations for this venture, we found that we could purchase paper collars. We cut our collars off our shirts, and attached these paper collars on, and when they got soiled they could be turned wring-side out and they would last about a week. We washed our garments and shirts and socks in the brook and while they were drying we would have our study class. We were told not to accept any rides or we would pass up homes. So we walked wherever we went. We found that the people in the country were friendly and curious and hospitable. We were out only in the summer time, which was four months, but during that time we had much success in getting into homes and had many fine discussions and were fed well. The only money we spent was to get our shoes repaired and to have our suits cleaned, which amounted to about eight dollars. We walked 150 miles. There were quite a few investigators gained from that first summer. The second summer I was transferred to southern Vermont, and didn't have near the success as in Maine. Everywhere we went we encountered Seventh-day Adventists, who listed us as their investigators, and likewise we were doing the same to them. In the four month period we slept out 13 nights and missed 26 meals. We slept in gravel pits, hay stacks, twice got permission to sleep in a school house. In fact I got sick from it all and it caused me to be released about three months early, but I'm glad I had that experience. We gained much, and it really strengthened my testimony. We received so many blessings.While in New England we had the privilege of visiting the granite quarries, the paper mills, clothing mills, one in particular was where they make Martha Washington bed spreads, and we witnessed them in the making, also visited slate quarries, where they make slate shingles. They uncover large slate rocks, and while they are still moist, they take their chisels, and gently tap on the seams, and the slate slabs separate and they are about a quarter of an inch thick, then they are cut and holes punched for the mails when they are installed on the houses. Most all the homes in this part of Vermont have slate roofs. The color is a dark dull green, with faint brown stripes.After returning home, i.e. Idaho Falls, the Bishop of the ward I left wouldn't rearrange his schedule so I could report my mission unless I waited a couple of months, and I didn't have any thing to keep me there, so I reluctantly went back to Utah. Walter Clark felt bad, but I didn't know what to do, but in the meantime, my Dad had sold the farm in West Tremonton, and moved to Deweyville. I stayed home for the summer, but got restless. I moved to Salt Lake. I had many short-term jobs. I was staying in an apartment near the State Capitol, and there was a girl living in one of the apartments there that just knew that I was the one she had been praying for. But I couldn't stand her. She was such an odd person. She finally decided that I wasn't interested in her, so she decided that I should meet her girl friend. I thought if she was anything like her, I didn't want to be bothered. But I finally consented to meet her and it ended up that I married her, after about four months of dating. So we were married on 26 January 1950. Our first child, a boy, was born 18 Dec. 1950. We named him Joseph Forrest. He is now married and has three children, and they are presently living in Chicago Illinois. He works for United Airlines as a computer programmer. Our second and last child was born 11 Dec. 1954. He is presently married and lives at the University Village in Salt Lake. He works at the Computer Center at the Merrill Building and goes to school part time.After we were married, we went on a honeymoon down to Los Angeles, and Catalina Island, and visited some relatives also. Our first apartment was on South Main  in Salt Lake. Next we moved to an apartment on A Street on the Avenues. There our first son was born. We later moved to a home on 750 East on 4200 South. I was working as a candy maker at Maxfield Candy at the time, but was having difficulty with my health. An opportunity came to operate a Stake Farm down by Saratoga Springs west of Lehi. I operated the farm for about two years. Then the owner of the candy company, talked me into coming back to work for him. We moved to West Jordan out on 2700 West and 81st South. We had a home with three acres. While there our second son was born. Here we made one of our biggest mistakes. We felt like it was too far to drive to work, so we decided to move into town (Salt Lake). This was a mistake because the property in West Jordan has a subdivision on it now, but that's experience I guess. Well we moved to 18 West Oakland Ave. in the center of South Salt Lake. I soon started having health problems from working in the candy, so after several years fighting it I decided would have to give it up. So we went job hunting again. I tried another farm job. This time it was a 2300 acre ranch called the Hi-Ute, near Kimball Junction. We were there a year and a half and the owner died. His name was Otto Buehner. His brother Paul, who operated the cast stone company on Wilmington Ave. thought it best for me to come down there and work, because they didn't know what to do with the farm. So we moved back down to the Oakland Ave. home (we had rented it previously). I worked at the Buehner plant for quite a while but felt like I needed a better job. So I located a better paying job at Walker Monument. My duties at this job was installing headstones and monuments at cemeteries, locally and throughout the state, but there was one drawback with this job: it was seasonal. During the winter months I would have to take time off. After several years it proved that we weren't getting ahead, because of the winter months layoff, so I got on out at Eimac, an electronics plant.While we were at Kimball Junction, we had to go to Park City to Church, and the boys had to go to Park City to School. I helped on the building of a new chapel while there. We had many rich experiences, and I got started in genealogy and was on genealogy committees. Our stake conferences were held in Kamas, Utah. The winter we were there it got to 35ç below zero at one occasion. The house was sitting near a plateau and the snow as high as the house. During the summer, I had a faith promoting experience. I was cleaning the irrigation ditches and doing some limited burning, keeping it well under control, when suddenly a whirlwind came upon me and scattered this fire into a stubble field about twenty feet away and those flames raced across that big field. I fought it until I was ready to collapse and I could see any minute that it would be burning up the hillside. I knelt down and asked for help and almost instantly the wind stopped and I was given added strength to quickly put out the flame. Also while I was on this ranch, I got electrocuted. We were having trouble getting the television signal where we were. There was a couple living in one of the homes on the ranch that they were renting. They bought a home up in Hoytsville. They had a special antenna, called a rhombic antenna. They could get a pretty good picture. They said we could try it while they were moving and if it worked for us we could get us one. It was a huge thing, about twelve feet long and eight feet wide shaped like a cross. They had it on a steel pipe anchored to a cedar post at the side of the house, the antenna reaching above the house. I had one of my nephews (David Jacobson) helping me on the farm, and he was helping me take it down. We undid the guy wires and he held them out of the way while I began to let it down, when suddenly the most awful sensation went through me. I felt like I was going round and round and I could hear my nephew calling "Uncle Forrest, uncle Forrest". It knocked me out for a moment. I came to and then fell over again and my wife saw me fall and came running. The antenna was all crumpled up on the ground. It had come in contact with the power line which goes to Park City, which carries 7200 volts. We called the power company and they said it was classed as an electrocution. I had little pinhole burns all over both hands, a big burn on my right forearm, but the main burn was just above my ankle bone. There was an area about two inches in diameter that was just cooked and charred. It had seared all the nerves, so there wasn't much pain to it. They rushed me to the hospital in Park City. The doctor put a dressing on it then wrapped it with one of these wrap around bandages, which covered my whole leg, and sent me home. We didn't get more than three or four miles out of town when I was in so much pain that I could not stand it any longer. I took the elastic bandage off and the pain stopped. Arvilla drove right on to Salt Lake and we went to see our family doctor at the Bryner Clinic. After he saw the burn, and we told him what the other doctor did, he said that was the worst thing to do with an electric burn. For six months I was treated for this, and at no time could I get any water on it. When taking a bath, I had to hang that foot out of the tub. After a few weeks, the doctor dug out all that burned dead flesh out of the wound. Then it began to heal. The new tissue would grow up in what they called granulation in little bumps all over the wound and it would come up above the surface of the skin. The doctor would take silver nitrate and burn the new tissue till it was below the surface of the skin. It would heal over a little and then the tissue would grow up again and they would have to repeat the process. He had to do that several times. Finally it closed over and all this time the nerves were growing back in the area. When ever I would have to stand of sit for any length of time it would just ache and throb till I could barely stand it, so I would have to get up and walk around. I also had trouble running the tractors on the farm. I had the same problem (aching, throbbing pain), so I built a rack on the side so I could prop my leg up so I could keep it elevated. It took a good six months before it was completely healed over, but after that the slightest bump would cause terrible pain. Every time I would get near electric power lines I would get that awful sensation. I was really blessed to recover from this experience, and I have always been grateful for these blessings.While we were living at our home at Oakland Ave. they built the I-80 freeway. That was quite an experience. They worked those big pile drivers driving six or eight inch pipes down into the ground then pull them out and fill them with sand, then it would be tamped in tight. This was down for the main reason for controlling traffic vibrations in the surrounding area. We had a garden and access to a flowing well. I built a chicken coop, so we had our own eggs and meat. I also built a carport and a shop and a root cellar. I've always been handy with my hands, being able to tackle any job before me. I've never had to hire any one to fix plumbing, or electrical, or any repair work. It has always been easy to figure out problems that arise. We lived at Oakland Avenue for nine years. Our sons went to Madison Grade School and Central Junior High and Granite High School. When we first moved to Oakland Ave. we lived in the Burton Ward. This was located on the borders of the right of way for the new Interstate 80 highway, so we had to abandon the building and they made the new Burton Ward in the Southgate building, on 2700 South and Main Street. We were in the South Salt Lake Stake, and the Southgate Ward was in the Granite Park Stake, but we got along fine. We had many rich many rich experiences while living here. My wife and I took a Danish Genealogy class, to learn how to do research. I was able to grasp the understanding and to be able to read the old Gothic script, sufficient to do our Danish Research. I spent many hours in the research work.We had a difficult problem about gaining ownership of our home and it was a blessing on how it turned out, because it was a real mess. The only way we could get our money out of it was to receive it on a trade with another house. We located a home in this manner on 2nd West at 3699 South. This was located in the Millcreek Stake. We lived in the Valley Center 1st Ward. It was located on Main Street just north of 3900 South. We had a half acre completely covered with Johnson grass and gopher mounds all over it, but through perseverance and lots of labor we got the ground so it would produce garden produce. I also built a chicken coop and a shop and in part of the shop I fixed it so I could raise some fryers. We were able to  raise our own vegetables and chicken meat. We had water shares for irrigation, so with that much ground we had plenty of water. While we were there, 2nd West was changed to 3rd West and it was made a truck route and a busy street. Besides that, the D. and R. G. (Denver and Rio Grande) railroad tracks were about 300 feet west of 3rd west and the trains would come often. The Roper Yard was close and the engines would really be roaring in front of our house. My wife had a little "what-not" shelf in the corner of the living room and the little trinkets would vibrate off the edge. I was working at EiMac at the time and was working the night shift, so trying to sleep during the day time was really hard to do. While we lived here we remodeled our kitchen and built a root cellar and a storage room above it.I did much genealogy research while living here. I searched out the Danish lines of my wife's line and got a lot accomplished.In 1972 it became necessary to bring my wife's parents to live with us. They had been living in Oak City in Millard County and they needed personal care and it was difficult to care for them that far away. We took them into our home to give them better care, but it wasn't too long before we had to put her father in a rest home in Delta, and he died in September of 1972. We kept her mother with us, but she died in our home in the spring of 1973. It was real hard to have them leave us, because they were so dear. They are both buried in Oak City, Millard, Utah.We could see that our stay couldn't last much longer at this location, because all the property around us was going commercial and it wouldn't be long before we would be crowded out. We listed the property for sale. We kept trying for about two years, then it finally came. In April of 1975 we sold the place and got a good price out of it. We then had to start again late in life to find a new place to live. Our son Lynn was in Japan on a mission at the time, but we were really impressed to come to Granger to look. The realtor that sold our place wanted to help us find a place. He had several places to show us. We liked each one, but the last one was more what we had been looking for, so we decided to take it. We sure felt like we were guided here. This is the best home we have ever owned, and we have been very happy here since. We've had such special leaders to guide us.I have a strong testimony of the Gospel. I know that the Church is true, that God lives and that he hears our prayers and gives us the answers we need. I am truly thankful that I have been guided throughout my life, and have received such marvelous blessings, and such a precious companion, and two wonderful sons. I am also grateful that my health and strength is improving. Recollections of Dad (letter written to Archie Earl from son Forrest, probably March 1964 during their mission to Florida)I'm grateful for my Dad, for all the things he has taught us through out our lives, There are so many things which we have received that are priceless. Things we won't forget, in helping us to develop to maturity. As I get older I begin to appreciate all the protection and spiritual guidance we have received in trying to keep us to live the gospel, by attending our meetings and teaching us by example.My mind wanders back to some of the things that have transpired while growing up. I think of the times I helped Dad drive cattle and sheep up on the range. And how we would visit the sheep camps and have our meals, such as sour dough bread and all that goes with it. I remember one late spring when we got up by cold springs that the wild flowers were all out in bloom. It was a most magnificent sight to see. There were all colors imaginable.We would see some of the wild game to excite our pleasure.The fishing trip up in U M when we got lost and Dad began to holler, and after lots of walking and yelling someone soon answered us and we got back safely. I think of the times working with the sheep, Dad teaching me how to sheap a sheep, of tromping wool, and herding sheep. Learning how to do things on the farm, that has been a great help to me ever since. You see Dad I'm truly grateful for all these experiences that you have provided for me. We don't realize the value of experience while we are young.We are thinking of you on your birthday, in a special way in trying to convey our special thanks for all the love you have shown us. And we give thanks to the Lord for providing you both with this special training as an emissary of truth in preaching the gospel to those who are searching for truth. May the Lord's choicest blessings be with you always,I remain your loving son - ForrestForrest - My Thoughts, 22 Jan 1971[I am] grateful for the inspiring thoughts that came in my mind this morning.How many of us criticize our Bishop or his counselors?How many of us have hatred for our neighbors?Do we realize how sacred the voting is in the church? We are given our free agency to raise our right hand to the square. That is an authentic vote in the affirmative for the person involved.How many of us criticize the decisions made on this individual, after we have voted for this person.We should attend every meeting that we are assigned to, because in some meeting wisdom will be given out that is so important for us.When a man is called to the office of Bishop, he is given the power of discernment, in other words he is given the inspiration to make the right choice, providing he is in tune with the right spirit.Abraham Lincoln once said: He had been driven to his knees with such an overwhelming desire, that he had no where else to go.I've had such a strong desire to help some one in their genealogical research, but I guess no one needs any help. I am really helping myself, though. With my persistence at the library, inspiring thoughts have come to me, both at home, at work, and at the library, to guide me in my search for the right choice pertaining to my direct line. This is one of the privileges that is given to us, if we are faithful, and persistent in our quest for help in guiding us to the right choice on our direct line for our ancestors.Maybe you have problems. Have you exhausted all source material available? Have you tried to the best of your ability to find what you are looking for? The Lord won't give us anything we need without us putting forth a persistent effort. We are entitled to inspiration if we are worthy to receive it.Now back to the evil influence in our midst. As long as we have hatred for our neighbors, we won't be entitled to have the spirit of the Lord. It's impossible to have both hate and love at the same time.Do we have ill feelings towards our companion?Do we have hatred for someone for the decision they have made?If so, we have the seeds of apostasy sprouted in our soul and mind, and if we don't turn around and ask forgiveness to all that we have wronged, we will continue to apostatize.We are going through trying times.We are all being tested, or going to be tested.If we can withstand the buffetings of Satan, this will be a great stride in our favor.Satan is really in his glory in our ward.He is in his glory when he sees people with such hatred and animosity that we have in our midst.Just remember we have got to overcome the world. This world will pass away, the wicked will burn as stubble. We can be in this world, but we don't have to be of this world. How many of you are of this world?You women for instance. Does your dress cover your body well? Like the Lord has counseled you to do or does it give the male members a desire of the flesh, to be carnally minded. Do you wear dresses that invite sexual suggestion?Remember the leaders of the church has been constantly reminding us of these evils, that we are partaking of.Satan is working with the clothing designers so that we can be constantly reminded of the flesh, and having wrong thoughts entering our minds. Having your body fully clothed is much more beautiful.The sheer blouses and the short, tight skirts are Satan inspired, and we should shun them like they were deadly poison. Because we are poisoning other people's minds by wearing them and leading us all down to hell.Attend every meeting that we are assigned.Diary entry, April 1, 1978This morning at 5:25 I left for work at the Deseret Press to get the TV Guide out for Idaho. We got it completed at 2:00 P.M. and while returning home I listened to the Primary Children's chorus singing for the commencement of the afternoon session of general conference. It was such a joy to hear them sing. We enjoyed so much the conference session and the emphasis on keeping the commandments and committing ourselves to service to our fellow men. There were changes made where beginning in 1979 that there would only be two stake conferences each year. Lynn and I and Merrill Cruser went over to listen to General Priesthood Mtg. It was a very inspiring meeting. They had combined prospective elders of the Salt Lake Valley that could and would sing to render the music for the priesthood meeting. It was a real thrill to hear them. The speakers were Howard W. Hunter, who spoke on Pres. Kimball's life. Then Robert L. Simpson gave a fine sermon. Then one of the new members of the First Quorum of the Seventy, then Pres. Romney, Pres. Tanner and last Pres. Kimball.Forrest's Hospitalization Journal, 1979-1980Had an appointment with Dr. Athens Sept 27th 1979. Kept appointment, had long interview of medical history with Brad Rasmussen including exam. He is a student intern. Then several vials of blood were taken and many more interviews of case history. They admitted me to the hospital. I was put in a four bed ward. Then doctors after doctors came in and repeated asking me the same questions on my case history. I guess they couldn't read the other guys or gals notes, anyway I sure got tired of reviewing my past, but seems each one had to have his own separate interview.Soon after I entered the hospital I had a severe chest pain in my left, which made it very difficult to breathe. The x-rays showed a lot of fluid gathering there. So they finally tapped it my going between the ribs on my back, the area between the ribs and the lungs, and found it to be blood. So they decided my lungs were bleeding, the walls of my lungs had thickened making it difficult to get oxygen into so I was put on oxygen, had to wear a mask 24 hours a day. They were also afraid that I might have a blood clot in my lung. So I was taken to a lab and they ran a probe in an artery in my right groin up through stomach into the heart and directed into the left lung then they introduced some iodine dye so my lungs could be x-rayed. They were only going to give me the dye once but they gave it three times, each time it caused a burning sensation in the lungs and groin and buttocks.Next I went to the Radiology lab and there they thoroughly examined me, then put me on a lung scanner. I had to sit perfectly still for ten minutes or less in various positions, then the machine would record a series of pictures, All turned out to be negative.They found that a lot of lymph nodes deep in my neck and arm pits and around the groin area. So they wanted to perform a biopsy and remove one in hopes it would give them the answer. So I was taken to the operating room. I thought they would never get through the preparation for the operation. They were just giving me a local, so I could hear all that was going on. They finally put a rectangle frame just above my head, then covered me all over with blue flannel sheets. This made it very warm underneath so a nurse kept cold towels on my forehead. After it seemed like ages they removed one and showed it me. Then Dr. Richards proceeded to ell the interns around him how to repair a hernia. Finally I asked the Dr. how he was coming up there. He said "don't mind my yacking, we're about through".Well this didn't give them the answer they were looking for. So all the doctors came to see me and said"we are baffled on your case, we've ruled out leukemia. Would you please tell us what you've got, we don't know." I had received several blood transfusions at the time and some platelets.The next thing they wanted to try was a biopsy of the lung. Each time they wanted to perform these tests I had to sign a release. So I signed it once more, but I didn't know I was going to suffer so much pain. This time I was put to sleep. They made an incision right near the breast and went over under the left arm. When they opened it up they found all this blood and also blood in the sack around the heart, so they made a small window in the heart sack to drain the blood, then put a drain in my side below the incision to drain the lung cavity, then they took a small portion of the lung and closed the incision. I woke up in the intensive care unit. I was there for two days, but they couldn't find a bed for me, so I had to wait two more days before they finally found a bed. This was a semi private. I was only there a short time until I was in a private room again.The lung biopsy provided the answer they had been searching for. I have a very rare form of leukemia. Up to this time I had been administered to and my name was put in all the local temples and so many wonderful friends and loved ones praying for me that I knew everything was going to be all right. I couldn't deny these sustaining blessings, also my many visits with my Heavenly Father made my faith stronger each day, and I prayed that the physicians would be guided in giving me the right treatment.Appendix C - Mission Journal and Pertinent Notes Feb. 6, 1947 - rec'd Mission call to New England - from Pres. George Albert SmithMar. 10, 1947 - Ordained a Seventy by Oscar A. Kirkhammission certificate dated Mar. 12, 1947Picture of missionaries found, dated 3-4-47 (probably 3 Apr. 1947 if consistent with these dates).  He left for his mission on 16 March 1947 and went to the New England States mission, under President S. Dilworth Young.  Some of the time he went without purse or scrip.  One story he tells is where they are invited to dinner by a woman who earns a living doing housework for others.  When they insisted on doing the dishes, she refused.  They continued to insist until she finally gave in.  As they worked, they discovered that she had not washed her dishes for months, but rather stacked them in the cupboards.  They did dishes for a very long time.  Another story was about a prank they played on another elder who had a strong dislike for runny eggs.  He always boiled them for a long time.  For their prank, they substituted fresh raw eggs for the long time boiling ones.  He took it out and found it quite runny, then boiled some more for a very long time afterwards. During his mission, he spent some time at the Joseph Smith birthplace and was there when it was set up as a monument (mentioned in the part of the journal below).A pictures book contains a lot of information as well. Here are some details from the pictures:Missionary class of March 3rd to 12th 1947 - Forrest is in the back row in the center.First area: Southern ConnecticutFirst Companion, Elder SimmonsThird Companion, Elder WoodfieldPres. & Sister Reeder, Mission presidentD.P. (probably district president), Elder LauritzenPicture of Forrest on a bicycleNew Haven, Connecticut March 29, 1947Sanford Maine in October 24, 1947Southern Maine, Christmas, District President Elder WinegarNotes on a report, dated August 20, 1947:Total no. of weeks in country work: 10Total cost for food and lodging (during those weeks): $8.00Total other expenses (for same period): $15.00Number of Books of Mormon sold: 10No. of investigators as a result of your labors: 3.Excerpts from some Elders' letters were in the Mission letters. Some people of note who wrote letters:David Kezerian (a good lifelong friend of Forrest's)Truman MadsenOscar McConkie(Written Journal - June 17, 1948 - November 29, 1948)[this is the beginning of a journal notebook, obviously continuing from a previous one that I have not been able to locate. He is in the area of Bennington, Vermont. His companion is Elder Hamilton from Missouri]... it was very comfortable. Rested better this night than we have for quite sometime.June 18th Friday After another nice gospel conversation with Mrs. Jones with a good nourishing breakfast under our belts we began our labors again. Met some fine people today. We held a meeting with an Australian girl and had a long talk with her afterwards. She told us all about Australia and things she was used to. Surely a sweet girl. Sure has a cute baby. She sure wants to go back home awfully bad. She's really planning on it too. After much more tracting we met some Jehovah Witnesses but all they want to do is argue. Farther up the road we held another meeting and stayed at some fine people's home but their bed was too soft. We sang some hymns to them before retiring. At Mrs. Ostrander    [this name apparently was written later, in a different ink ]June 19th Saturday Most of this week has been good weather, but we're surely getting a rain today. Don't look all that good for traveling, but we've got an appointment to fulfill at the 7th Day Adventist Church, where we're to sing a duet for them. We sang "Sowing", we had many compliments on our singing we then returned to the Frost's residence, where we had a continuation of discussions on doctrine of the church. We stayed here tonight.June 20th SundaySpent part of the day writing letters. Later Mr. Wouldell came over (he is one of their investigators to the 7th Day Church) we talked with him for awhile and he invited us over to his apartment. We held a cottage meeting and sacrament meeting with him and gave him some literature, then we walked up to Bennington Monument which is quite a sight to see. It has a stairway inside of it clear to the top. We didn't go up because we wanted to wait till we had our cameras, maybe later on we'll see it. After arriving back we went to Frost's again and stayed here tonight.June 21 MondayHad a wonderful gospel conversation this morning. Mrs. Frosts is really sincere in knowing the truth. I hope she keeps on seeking to know. We journeyed over to the Post Office then headed out on another road west of the highway. Met some good people. Especially a Jehovah Witness who was very open minded, which was very unusual. She is seeking to know the truth also. Tonight we stayed with Vadakin's. Said they would come out to our meetings wherever we held them. Didn't hold a meeting with them but maybe sometime we can. Sure had a good supper.June 22 Tuesday. Tried to obtain permission to hold a meeting Pownal Center this evening but something was scheduled so will hold it tomorrow evening. This will give us more time to prepare for it. Walked a long ways today, and finally stayed in the loft of Jones house.June 23 Wednesday. This morning we had a bath before departing. We did have breakfast and dinner before leaving, though. Invited the whole area of Pownal Center to the meeting tonight. But Mrs. Jones was the only one who came out. We held the meeting anyway and stayed with Mrs. Andrews, Mrs. Miles sister, who runs a tourist home. She gave us a few sandwiches and a free bed. Sure nice.June 24th ThursdayContinued tracting towards Pownal Village today had a very poor day but met a few nice people. We tried to obtain permission to hold a meeting in the churches but had to wait till the committee decided on it. So we headed out in the country and tracted till 10:30 PM with it pouring down. We finally found an old abandoned garage and spent the night in it.June 25 Friday. This morning we went down to the brook and shaved and cleaned up then went back to see about the church house, but they hadn't met yet, so will have to come back next week. Yesterday an old man gave us a dollar to buy us our lunch. So we bought a few things and headed over the hill towards [missing] Had our lunch then walked clear up to Mrs. Winchells. There she let us wash our clothes and I weeded her flowers and tried to rid her house with bees. We nailed boards over the holes so don't know how they'll work out. Had a lovely bed tonight, twin beds. We also listened to the Louis and Walcott fight.June 26 SaturdayMrs. Winchell gave us a ride into Bennington to get our mail. Then we had an invitation back to Frost's. I had a stomach ache that had been bothering me for two or three days so this afternoon I went in to see a doctor. I saw Dr. Durand. He looks like Truman Madsen's brother. He didn't charge me a cent but gave me some pills. I sure hope they help out a lot. We stayed here again tonight.June 27 SundayAfter breakfast this morning (11 A.M.) we listened to the Tabernacle choir and Organ from K.S.L Sure sounded good to hear it again. We spent the day writing letters, and helped Gilbert get his plow put together right. We had another discussion this evening before retiring. They always have morning and evening worship. It's what should take place in all homes.Junes 28 MondayWent to the post office and received a card from Dean Fausett. He said we could call on him about the middle of July but he would be busy the 4th. In our tracting today we found a little road off the side that didn't show on the map. It said on the entrance "Green Mountain Bible Conference" so we went up there and found a very nice family. In fact we stayed all night with them. They were Clarence Webber and family.June 29 TuesdayThis morning we planned on going up on the top of the mountain to fast and pray to receive guidance for we do need guidance in softening the hearts of these people in this vicinity. I know the Lord will guide us if we sincerely and humbly seek him. We truly need to have his inspiration to perform the work here because the people are very set in their beliefs. We desire to accomplish the best to our ability in our labors. We stayed till 2 P.M. then it began to pour down so we came back down for shelter. We found many more houses around that area off the highway and also some mighty fine people. We also found another road off the highway with four more houses. One was a bee keeper by hobby trade and we stayed there all night. We got along swell too but didn't get any supper except for an apple we had.June 30 WednesdayThis morning we didn't get up till 9 A.M. and had a delicious breakfast. Also got stung with a bee right behind my left ear. Something to remember Mr. Fred W. Ferson by. He also gave us a jar of honey each, which will really taste good someday. We tracted quite a distance today. We walked up a very steep hill. Down the other side we stayed with Douglas Sweet and his family. They are very fine people. Some careful work with them would probably bring them into the church. We stayed with them this evening.July 1st ThursdayThis morning we really had a super breakfast and had a nice talk with Mrs. Sweet. We then came down to the brook and had a bath and washed our clothes. While they are drying we're having our sandwiches we have left over from last week. We continued our tracting on in to Pownal Center. Then finished with Mr. Bump, talked till 10 P.M. then found our we couldn't stay there so we went out to our deserted garage for another evening. Sure hard to rest on a hard spot of ground. We should be thankful that we had shelter, though.July 2nd FridayTried to get permission to hold a meeting here in Pownal but found no success. So we tracted the whole town and met a few nice people. Stayed this evening at a college professor's home. They've only been here since last September. They surely treated us swell and also gave us a fine supper. Sure have a cute little girl.Met a man here by the name of Buchanan, James from Scotland.July 3rd SaturdayArose this morning got shaved and they gave us a delicious breakfast. Had some fun with Priscilla, the little girl here. We then left for North Pownal to pick up our mail and try to get permission to hold a meeting, but were unsuccessful. We then continued up through the country towards Bennington. Met some nice people and a Mrs. Wilcox invited us to stay. We then finished a road farther up before quitting for the day. When we arrived back there was a note saying unsuspected company just arrived and they were unable to keep us. So we decided to journey back up where we went after meeting her and waited till almost midnight for Mr. and Mrs. John Carr to get home to see if we could stay in their barn, but they fixed a room up for us for the night. Previously they gave us a good supper so we felt mighty thankful.July 4th SundayThey invited us to stay over for today and rest up, which sounded very encouraging. They are from southern Missouri where Elder Hamilton is from. So they have lots to talk about. I had the privilege to ride a horse that none of them had tried to ride. I had a swell time. Wish Lorraine had been there in person. We also went to church with them, to a Methodist Episcopal. There was too much form and ceremony to be very interesting. They had communion. There's sure a lot to go through to take it. We didn't but everybody else did. Had a gospel conversation with them this evening but didn't gain much, because he is a layman preacher. We stayed here again tonight.July 5th MondayAfter some more delicious food under our belts we continued on our journey. We surely had some wholesome meals with these fine people. Met some more nice people today, on the way back we got caught in a rain storm and were forced up on Mr. Swain's porch or piazza. To our surprise they invited us in and we stayed all night. They fed us a nice supper.July 6th TuesdayRode to Bennington with them today to see if our mail had stopped there or not. None there, so we took another side road west of the highway. Here we saw the largest orchard I've ever seen. We walked through it all afternoon. Couldn't find a place to stay so we slept on some sacks in a barn nearby, but were invited to have breakfast the next morning at another family from Minnesota.July 7th WednesdayJourneyed down to this place. Had a delicious breakfast and found out that Mrs. Pizzano and Elder Hamilton had attended to same school in Ames, Iowa. Went down to North Pownal, but no mail. So we tracted down the highway, but couldn't find a place to stay so we slept in a deserted stand along the highway. My is was cold, too. Nearly froze. There was a kind lady that fixed us a lunch that we had met previously and sent her husband out to find us. Gee was that ever good. Another lady gave us a quart of milk between us. Another fellow at a gift shop gave us a box of candy, a dollar bill and a drink of orange soda. We were well provided except for a bed.July 8th ThursdayCouldn't stay there any longer because we were too cold (temp. 40çF) so we got up, went down to the river and got some water and shaved. We continued our journey back towards Pownal. We finished tracting the town of Pownal and had a few nice gospel cons. But were unable to find a place for the evening. So we headed towards North Pownal and went to the first house. It was vacant but there was a fellow milking there and he gave us all the milk we could drink. We drank out of a milk can lid. Gee it surely tasted good. The next house was Warren Cummings. We held a meeting with him and he invited us to stay for the night. Seems to be quite the fellow. He's only been married a little over a year. Had a good meal and gospel conversation with him.July 9th FridayAfter breakfast we headed for town to see if our mail had come, and the letters had but still no literature so we had a study class, and then tracted from the New York border into the border of North Pownal. We then wrote letters and went back to the post office at five for our literature didn't arrive till then. Started for Cummings but we were invited to visit a fellow by the name of Ward Knights who is the town minister for the Congregational Church, just a missionary I guess. We had a good discussion with him, too. We gave him 1 tract and nine pamphlets. For he wanted to know more about our message than what we had already told him, so we gave him the works. We stayed out to Cummings tonight, they fed us again.July 10th SaturdayLeft Cummings this morning and headed for town in hopes to hold a meeting, but were unable to. So we had a study class then tracted a few hours, then we were invited out to Carrs by Mr. Knights to a children's picnic. We had lots of fun and quite a few nice things to eat. We were invited to stay at Mr. Knights tonight. Had a nice bed. (sold him a Book of Mormon)July 11th SundayWent to two services today, one in Pownal Center, the other here in No. Pownal. They were fair. We had a good gospel conversation afterwards with Ward's brother. We sold a Book of Mormon to his brother. They then left for their folks but didn't offer to provide us with anything to eat. So we are now in a cow pasture in the shade. Suppose we'll have to sleep out tonight, for we would rather not tract on Sunday. We found a shack up on the hill with lots of hay in it so we stayed for the night.July 12th MondayHad a good restful sleep last night. After cleaning up we resumed our tracting here in No. Pownal. We held two meetings today. The first one with Mrs. Goss, the second one with Mr. and Mrs. Hewitt, so we had a pretty good day. Had some good conversations too. We stayed with Warren Cummings again tonight. He has mentioned that he would like to join the church. He seems very sincere when he says that.July 13th TuesdayAfter a delicious breakfast we continued our tracting here in North Pownal, and we nearly finished. Today we held a meeting in town and one with Warren and his wife and stayed here again tonight. Sure tracted a slew of houses today. Won't take long to finish in the morning.July 14th WednesdayWe bid Warren and his wife good-by for about a month. Warren about got his foot mashed last night when a trailer tongue dropped on his foot. He went to the hospital this morning to get it x-rayed. [the writing] got mixed up a little here so will try to straighten it out. After leaving Warren's went back to town and tracted the rest of the houses. There were quite a few left. Several rejects, too, but we talked with one lady for about three hours. She was very nice to talk to and to discuss religious doctrine. Hope it can turn into something good. We went back to Hewitts and helped them scatter hay so it would dry. The tedder didn't do a good enough job so it had to be done by hand. We stayed here tonight. We had a very good supper with strawberry short cake. Allison played some hymns and I sang. She's only ten but is a very good player. Gee she weighs 131 at her age. Not so fat, just big. We sure had a comfortable bed tonight. These folks are Pentecost and believe in signs for everything. They think its a necessity to believe in the gift of tongues without the interpretation of such.July 15th ThursdayWe finished tracting here in town today and finished the little side road towards Pownal Center. It's good we didn't depend on these people for a place to stay, because they are nearly all rejects. We continued on to the crossroads and found a brook and did our washing. It took us nearly four hours before mine were dry. We left there at three thirty then continued on the Pownal Center. A fellow picked us up and gave us a ride all the way to Bennington, where we got a card from Dean Fausett's sister saying we couldn't come up for now, but maybe after the 20th we can. We also saw the American Legion about their hall to hold meetings in. It's located up in the Green Mtn. Bible Conference area, but won't know till the middle of August. We also saw the chief of police about holding street meetings, but he referred us to Mr. Van Graves. Will have to see him tomorrow. We then got some alum for deodorant and continued to the Frost household. They were glad to see us so we stayed for the night. Had a good supper, too.July 16th FridayThis morning we caught up on a few details such as letter writing and diary. Then went down to see Mr. Van Vetchen Graves about street meetings. He said he couldn't see anything wrong with it. So we returned to the Police Chief and he finally consented to giving us a choice spot of the town, right on the corner of the crossroad where highway nine crosses highway seven. Stayed with the Frosts again tonight.July 17th SaturdayHad a few discussions today with the Frosts, went down and made arrangements to hold a hall meeting at the Bushnell School for next Wednesday. Then this evening we held a street meeting. During the time I was speaking, a car pulled up along side and said, "Elder, come here a minute." We couldn't figure out who it was, so Elder Hamilton stepped back to see who they were. He said they were members from Malone, New York. He told them how we were out without purse or scrip and they couldn't hardly believe it. Elder H. informed them of the celebration next Saturday at So. Royalton, then they drove on, and while Elder Hamilton was speaking they drove by again and made me take five dollars to buy a meal. My they were nice. They said they were planning on moving here to Bennington for the winter. But I didn't get their names. Sure wish I'd ask them again. We had a splendid street meeting anyway. Stayed to the Frosts again this evening. Before out street meeting we tracted out the East road from Frosts and met some of the people we first met, and others. Mrs. Mallory paid me for the Book of Mormon.July 18th SundayStayed at Frosts and listened to the Tabernacle Choir from S.L.C. Gee it seemed good to hear it again. Spent part of the day studying and writing letters.July 19th MondayBegan early this morning to invite the people out to the meeting Wednesday evening. No invite-ins today. And we worked clear down to Vadakins, but they couldn't keep us for the night, so we went over to our last resort, to the Ostranders and they wouldn't keep us either so we were left out for the night. We finally found an old gravel pit and in this hole was a tiny shack. We found some old screens to lay on and had prayer and went to bed. But couldn't sleep because it kept getting colder, and about 1:30 A.M. I got up and built a fire. I found some old tubes and tires. One tire kept burning till four and by another it lasted till morning. I laid down near the fire and slept very well. Elder Hamilton stayed in the hut. We were glad to see morning arrive and the sun to come up.July 20th TuesdayWent over to the Brook and shaved before continuing our labors. We met Mr. and Mrs. Everstreet. He taught Philosophy at the BYU just before the war. So we had quite a talk with him. He invited us to have dinner with them. Boy did it ever taste good. We finally continued on, but were unable to find a place to stay tonight so we  stayed in that newly made dog kennel. A fellow who is the owner gave us permission to stay there if we were ever left out for night. There hasn't been any dogs in it yet. Had a pretty nice rest this evening.July 21st WednesdayWent to the stream and shaved and bathed then ventured into town to buy something to eat. Afterwards returned and had dinner. Later we finished the few houses we had left to tract. One lady had a little  girl who has a tumor the full length of her spine and has been bed ridden most of her short life. She is five. Probably not much chance for her to be cured from it. I cheered her up a little by playing with her. Sure a cute girl. Such a shame. Went to the school house, got the key and had our supper from what we had purchased early today. Time for the meeting arrived but no one showed up but we held it anyway, and stayed here for the night. We won't know how to sleep when we have the opportunity to take our clothes off.July 22nd ThursdayHad some more of our food this morning then continued towards town. Today we are to go to South Royalton, to prepare for the big event Saturday. We had some good rides. The second one all the way to Brattleboro. We stopped at the Hendersons for about an hour. Then continued towards our destination. A police man picked us up and took us all the way. He was heading for St. Albans. Arrived about two thirty. Many of the Elders were there, so it was pretty nice to see them again. They all voted to put me in charge of the cooking during the weekend. So I had quite a job. Worked up to the monument for a short time this evening. Also tried to fix the sign that leaked. Took it home this evening.July 23rd FridayI cooked some rolled wheat for cereal this morning and gave them all fried eggs. Then I worked on the sign, so I could get it put back on the monument for Saturday and the tourists. I made vegetable salad for the elders this noon. Then afterwards I sealed the sign and varnished the edges to make a sealtite job.July 24th SaturdayAll the Elders left for the monument and left me here. So I fixed some sandwiches and about noon I got ready and a truck came back for something and were surprised that I was still here. So they took me up with the bunch. We had an enjoyable day with the association with all the Elders. Especially with Elder Kezerian. In the afternoon we played  softball and later on had a good spiritual feast. Bro. Fugal and Pres. Young both spoke, and I sang twice in a double mixed quartet and once in a quartet. Then many of the people left. Later on we had a couple of comical skits. Soon the day was finished and the celebration was over. We went back to the chapel. We stopped at the store and I bought $11.00 worth of food for Sunday.July 25th SundayMade chili beans for the Elders for dinner. Had about 4 gallons of them. They all seemed to like it and in the evening I made the same amount of rice pudding. They always clean up all I cook so I guess it don't kill them. Some people dropped in from St. Louis, Mo. who knew Elder Hamilton. We had a nice visit with them, tried to get them to stay, but they wouldn't. We certainly had a good meeting today. Mostly Elders though. Nearly every chair was filled. A few investigators were there too.July 26th MondaySpent most of the day packing my suitcases again for another few months. This evening we held a cottage meeting with Mrs. Whitcomb and Mrs.______. They were at the service in So. Royalton and seem to be very much interested in the gospel and the church. Finished packing this evening so we can catch the bus the first thing in the morning.July 27th TuesdayCaught the 9:30 bus this morning for Brattleboro then had to wait from two to five before the next bus arrived. We got to Bennington at seven thirty and went out to the Frosts for the evening.July 28th WednesdayWe traveled out to see Mr. Ball Lyons to obtain permission but he referred us to Mr. Leon Eldredge and after quite a gospel conversation he finally consented to let us hold a meeting in the Chapel School and the Hicks School. So went back to Mr. Lyons to get the keys, and he said we would have to see Mr. Wagner, superintendent of the Department of Schools in Bennington. It was too late to see him tonight so we decided to wait till morning. We had a few sandwiches in our possession left over from last week so decided to have them, but we decided to walk down to a side road. As we neared the road we passed several homes and the next to the last one was where Mrs. Stratton lives as we found out as she got out of the car. She invited us in to rest. We ended up having supper and staying overnight. Slept on the couch. Mighty nice people. Mrs. Ruth Stratton is a Seventh-day Adventist, but her husband and family are not. Carl is a kind-hearted soul. Can't stand to see anyone go hungry, so we've been really treated well.July 29 ThursdayWe invited people all day. After we had obtained the keys from Mr. Wagner, we held a meeting with Mrs. Cushman and loaned her a B. of M. then continued up the road. Met many fine souls. Sure hope some would come to our meetings, but no one came this evening. We held the meeting to ourselves. Had our sandwiches afterwards and stayed at Strattons tonight.July 30 FridayInvited many people to the meeting for this evening but no one came. We again held the meeting to each other. Can't imagine why they don't come out. It seems we are in harmony with the gospel. Something is lacking. We stayed again this evening at the Strattons.July 31st SaturdayHeld a street meeting this afternoon in Bennington. We had Mr. Post of the Seventh Day Adventist make us a nice sign, with the name of the church (Mormon), no collections. It made the people stop long enough to read the sign, and they were able to hear some of the message. So I think it's quite an asset for meetings. We showed some of the films to the Strattons this evening and was able to make it into a cottage meeting. We went to the S.D.A to church also today. Met some good people. August 1st SundaySpent the day resting up and catching up on this diary. We held a cottage meeting this afternoon with some people who dropped in to see the Strattons. We stayed here this evening again.August 2nd MondayAfter leaving Strattons we had prayer to know where to go and decided to go to Dorset to visit Dean Fausett and his sister. We arrived there at noon and found them both at home. He is quite an artist. My he does some beautiful paintings, and is famous for some of his work. Flora was a Wac. and helped in the Japanese branch of the Church. We visited with all the rest of the day. They sure treated us swell. We stayed in a good bed tonight.August 3rd TuesdayWatched them do more painting today. Wish I could paint some pictures. My it looks interesting. This afternoon we held a Sacrament meeting with them. Stayed again with the members tonight.August 4 WednesdayFlora brought us down down to South Shaftsbury in their convertible Buick called "Alice." It was a lovely ride. She gave us ten dollars to turn into the branch for fast offering and also for us to keep some of it. We stopped off here to see about obtaining a school house for another hall meeting. We saw Mr. Strong. He said it would be allright with him but we would have to see Mr. Harris in Shaftsbury Center, but after walking clear up there he wasn't home. I was much troubled about something. So we came back towards South Shaftsbury, but before we got back we stopped at a spring that was piped to the road. There we had lunch that Mrs. Stratton had fixed for us a few days back. I think we were supposed to do just what we did because Bro. Fairburn, the member we met at the Street Meeting, stopped and saw us there. He had some trouble with his business and had gone back to Malone to try to dispose of it. He has had a nervous breakdown over what has happened, so is in a bad fix. He has left his wife in North Bennington in a trailer house. He wants to fight his battle alone. If he wins he wants to move out west. We went over to see his wife and held a sacrament meeting with them. They sure seem to be nice people. We'll have to visit them quite often. We ventured down to the tailors to fix a hole in the knee of my pants. Then went out to Frosts and stayed all night with them.August 5th ThursdayWe had a long talk with Mrs. Frost this morning in fact it lasted till noon. We had dinner then we decided to go over to see Charlestreams but they weren't home so did some tracting near here, for they wouldn't be home until six. So we stopped there about that time and they were just getting supper ready. We were invited in  and also invited to supper. Gee it tasted good. We had a bit of song fest but didn't get much chance to talk religion to them. Hope to soon though. We got back to Frost's about 10:30 P.M. And it was pouring down tonight. Mighty happy to have some shelter.August 6 FridayThis morning we headed for South Shaftsbury and saw Mr. Strong. We obtained permission to obtain the school so went ahead and invited people for the rest of the day. Met a few nice people today. This evening we stayed at Mr. Tillison. They are Norwegian people, but are Pentecosts. Wouldn't accept anything we said but fed us very good.August 7 SaturdayAfter breakfast this morning we continued tracting and met some more good people. We were invited to dinner at noon. It sure tasted good. I sure hope and pray that we get a good turn out to our meeting. We tracted until about 3:30 P.M.. Then we headed back for Bennington. We got to Strattons about five. Sorted out our tracts. Then went down and held a street meeting again. Then came back and had a good supper before retiring.August 8 SundayListened to the choir and organ from S.L.C. this morning. My it seemed good to hear it again. I cooked some chili beans for the Strattons and they sure raved over them. Spent the rest of the day resting up and discussing doctrine in the Bible.August 9th MondayAfter a good breakfast we departed for Shaftsbury Center. There we took off towards the area that we planned a meeting for. We met many people today, but were not invited in once. Several said they would be more than happy to come to the meeting. We finally got up to Shaftsbury Hollow and met some wonderful people, about the best to talk to for quite sometime. We were unable to find a place to stay so we had the keys to the school house near here so we used the cloth window blinds for covers. Got along well with these.August 10th TuesdayAfter shaving and such we continued our tracting on up Shaftsbury Hollow. Not many people live up here anymore. We did meet some people by the name of John Westfall who were baptized into the church around 1919, but later became interested in the Rosicrucians more so than the church. We did have a delicious dinner with them. The next house we had a cottage meeting with them. After finishing tracting we journeyed clear back down to the school house. We had the wrong key for it and we had to remove the bolts out of the hinges to be able to hold the meeting. Only one man and a little boy came to the meeting, and when we were closing, another fellow came in. After the meeting we talked quite a bit on religion and other stuff. We asked the fellow if we could sleep in his barn and he said sure. So after we put the hinge back on the door, we went up to his place, but he decided to share his house with us. We had a delicious supper, the opportunity to take a bath and to rest very well. We saw the cutest pair of twin fawns today, sure pretty.August 11 WednesdayWe headed for Pownal Center after a delicious breakfast. And saw Mrs. Esther Miles to see what day she had advertized for our meeting to show the colored slides of the Historic Highlights and scenic views. She had set Thursday night. So we set out to invite people to the meeting. Didn't have a place to stay tonight and had heard of Walter Knights planning to hold a prayer meeting so we thought it would be wise to go, because his twin Brother "Ward." His wife went insane and he's pretty well broken up about it. I sure hope she can get better. Well after prayer meeting we asked Walter if it would be allright to stay in the church house for the evening. He didn't think so, but would ask his wife. Later he came back cursing us in the Name of Jesus Christ that he didn't think much of our belief and was sorry we couldn't agree with the way he believed. Well we invited him to our meeting anyway and walked up the road. But couldn't find anyplace. We even tried Mrs. Andrews again, but all she could do was to give us a sandwich and a glass of milk. Mrs. Miles mentioned of a secret passage way from the Town Hall to the church above so we found a window open in the town hall and climbed in then unlocked the door to the town hall for Elder Hamilton. Then I found the secret passage way up to the church. We both climbed up through, took the cushions off the benches and laid them on the floor, made a pillow with one and settled down for a good nights rest.August 12 ThursdayHad a mighty nice rest last night and had a few sandwiches for breakfast. We finished as much of the town today as we could, in fact only a few houses missed. Met Mr. and Mrs. Horte, she is German. She gave us a nice lunch. Very kind to us. It finally came time for the meeting and we had all females - six tourists, one town lady and four young girls. We showed the films, sold one Book of Mormon and had long interesting discussions afterwards. We had to stay here in the church again tonight, without much to eat.August 13 FridayHad a good sleep but was rather hungry this morning. We tracted west of Pownal Center. Met some people who invited us in because it was really pouring down outside. We ended up in showing them the films, and they gave us a sandwich and pie and cake, glass of milk. Sure tasted delish, Continued on tracting, thought we might stay with Douglas Sweet again this evening, but they have moved. We received a loaf of bread and a can of deviled ham from another lady, then another gave us a glass of milk and a ride to Bennington. We stayed out to Strattons this evening.August 14th SaturdayHad breakfast at Strattons, went down and had new heels put on my shoes, then went over to the bus depot to inquire about the schedule for Concord N. H. Met Mr. Woodell there and walked down the street with him. We intended on going to Frosts, but passed right by that road and went down to Woodells house. There we were invited for dinner. Afterwards went to the S. D. A. church. We loaned a B of M to Mr. Woodell. Then later went out to Strattons. Mrs. Ward was there. She is a S.D.A. too. We loaned her a B of M also. Had a very good discussion with her about the church. Didn't feel so good today so we didn't hold a street meeting. But went to bed instead.August 15th SundayWent over to see the Fairburns today. They both were there and was very glad to have us near. We got there just in time for the Tabernacle Choir to begin. It sure was good. We administered to Bro. Fairburn and had some long talks with them about their troubles and etc. We then went back to Strattons for a chicken dinner. Then had an all afternoon discussion in biblical passages relating to the B of M. really gave her something to think about. She was very much interested in all the discussion. We later walked five miles back to North Bennington to hold a sacrament meeting with the Fairburns. We had a delicious supper too. After sacrament meeting we returned back to Strattons. Bro. Fairburn drove us back to where we slept at Strattons. We took the cushions off the studio couch and spread them on the floor, put blankets over these for to sleep on.August 16th MondayHeaded for Pownal this noon. Mr. Horte of Pownal Center gave us a ride to his house. He also invited us in to have something to eat. We ended up by showing them the films and Mrs. Horte gave us a big lunch. We then took it down the road towards Mrs. Niles. There we ate and had a study class. On our way out, Mrs. DuMont stopped and asked us if we could show the films to their art class. So we did at 8:30 P.M. and had 22 out and had a good meeting all together. We stayed again in the church house. These artists gave us $5.52. We couldn't convince them any different. So had to take it. Also sold a B of M to one of the students.August 17 TuesdayWent to Pownal today and met a few people who were passive. Towards evening we met Mr. Arthur Daniels Jr. He said we could stay there with him. He didn't have much room, but gave what he had. He also gave us supper. We held a meeting with him and showed him the films. We stayed in a place about four feet square.August 18 WednesdayTracted all day and stayed with Mr. and Mrs. Siegfried Tolle. Showed them the films. They gave us both dinner and supper and a bath.August 19 ThursdayContinued tracting today but didn't get invited in once. We held a meeting with the Tolle's this evening and stayed with them again. They sure treated us swell.August 20 FridayFinished tracting Pownal today and headed up towards North Pownal. We saw Warren Cummings, but he only quit smoking for about a week. And is now as bad as ever, just another contact. We went in to North Pownal and went through the Tannery. It was very interesting just how it was all done. They really rushed us through because it was closing time. We then went over to see Mr. Powell. We planned on buying an ice cream bar, but he insisted on giving it to us. He even gave us a quart of milk and several pieces of peaches that had bruised spots on them and no one would buy them, so we really got filled up. We later returned to Warren's house and showed the films to them, but they weren't interested in our appearance there. We were just one of the dozens of flies pestering the household. We did stay here tonight anyway.August 21 SaturdayUp at seven thirty this morning. They didn't offer us any breakfast so we took up the mountainside. It was too long to go around. We found a brook and shaved, and darned if I didn't leave my mirror hanging on a twig. We soon reached the highway, no sooner had we than a fellow came along and gave us a lift to Pownal Center. We were soon walking again, but not for long, because someone else came along and knew who we were and gave us a ride clear to Bennington. We made it in time to get our mail. We can't hitchhike anymore thank goodness. After reading our mail we ventured out to Frost's. Later on went to their church again, and in the evening we showed the films to about 35 of the members of the S.D.A. church. Had a good meeting and afterwards we had light refreshments. Stayed at Frost's again tonight.August 22 SundayAfter breakfast we went over to see the Fairburns. We walked all the way and no one was home. They had gone back to Malone N. York. So everything must be all right. We caught a bus back to Bennington, and went up and took a few pictures of the monument and other historic buildings. Also went through the museum. It was very interesting. We ended up the day by going back to Frost's, but didn't do much.Aug. 23 MondayLeft Bennington at 12:45 P.M. Destiny Concord. Had to change in Brattleboro, so we stopped to see the He... and they were just leaving to take Elder ...  ...  mont N.H.... [page torn at this place][top of next page]had dinner and had the concluding meeting this afternoon. In answering questions and being reassigned to new companions. My companion is Elder Richard L. Service from Holladay. He is married. Later in the day we all held a street meeting. [ I assume this is in Concord, N. H.] Had a very good attendance ... first one that has been held in ... [page torn at this place][top of next page]go anyway. We arrived in Rutland at 12:30 and had the bus stop at Temple St. Just a short distance from where we stored our luggage. Sure was a help. We had dinner with Mrs. Potter then took Elder Jones luggage down to him. Made an appointment to see a dentist. Later on we saw Bro. Kelly and had a good talk with him. At 5:30 we went to Wallingford to see Sister Snyder. We had a very short Sacrament service with her. Then visited with some of her friends the rest of the evening. I've been sick nearly all afternoon. I think it is heat exhaustion. Sure dizzy and weak. We had a good supper then retired.August 27th Friday.Been resting all day to recuperate from the heat ailment. Elder Services has been swimming most of the day and I've been writing on this diary most of the time. I hope to get a few letters written before we go back. Did a bit of studying also. After returning to the house we all received an invitation to a surprise birthday party, but it wasn't much, because beer and etc. were mingled with it. I slept in the car through part of it. We finally returned and got to bed about two A.M.August 28 SaturdayWent out to Potters but before leaving Wallingford we went to an auction of someone selling out. What crummy stuff they were selling. We left there about 2 P.M. and went to Potters. We had supper here. We also held a street meeting tonight and had three stop. They seemed very much interested. We then returned to Mrs. Purriers and slept there in her attic, sure was hot.August 29 SundayHad breakfast this morning at Mrs. Purriers and spent the day repacking, listening to the choir and organ, writing letters and studying. Went over to Reynolds and stayed there tonight. We both slept much.August 30th MondaySpent most of the day at Hilda's. Did a bit of studying . Most of the time was wasted. Went to Dekkers this evening and stayed here tonight.August 31 TuesdayLeft here about 10:30 and started tracting North from Castleton. We had very good success, held two cottage meetings and stayed at Sunset Mountain Lodge. Their name was Donavan. They fed us and we had twin beds to sleep in.Sept. 1 WednesdayHad a fine breakfast and continued tracting, had good success today. We held two meetings again, and several good gospel conversations. Stayed at Robert R. Ford's, had second meeting here. We had a delicious supper.Sept 2nd ThursdayWe left them a B of M to read (loaned) Tracted all day and no meetings. Met some good people, though, but all were to busy. About dark we came to a crossroad and had planned on going right, but was inspired to go left. We offered a word of prayer and head opposite to our plans. The first house invited us in. We held a meeting with them and loaned them a B of M. They were unable to keep us so we were directed down a heavy grassy road, and contacted the second house. They invited us in and we held a meeting with them and sold them a B of M. But they were unable to keep us either so we came to the oiled road and walked about three miles. We came to a hot dog stand and decided to get a sandwich. We told him who we were and how we are traveling. He said he had some sleeping bags and cots he would let us use. Also had an old camp out back, so we took him up on his offer. It was now midnight. So it was a welcome sight. We were planning on walking clear to Castleton, which is seven miles away, but glad we didn't.Sept 3rd Friday.We did have to walk the seven miles to Castleton this morning, got our mail and went out the edge of town, read our mail while we were waiting for the bus. Deane sent me the most welcome package I've seen in a long time. My it tasted good. For we hadn't eaten much since yesterday morning. We went on in to Rutland, took our bags out to Hildas then went in to get my teeth fixed. He sure did a fine job. Filled five cavities and only charged me $13.00. Also gave me a cleaning job. The best I've ever had. Slept out to Hilda's again tonight. I've had a bad sore throat too. Doctored up for it a little.Sept 4 SaturdayWoke up with a bad cold, went over to Potters to get some supplies. Had dinner here then Kermit and Gertrude brought us clear over to Castleton. Elder Service got a package from his wife. I got my suit and we walked out to Dekkers. My cold was pretty bad so went to bed. Took a hot lemonade and went to sleep. Also doped my neck up good with Mentholatum and covered it. Hope it breaks it up.Sept 5th SundayWoke up this morning feeling pretty dopey, but had a normal temperature. Feel much better this afternoon, but think its best to stay in bed. Sure hope this breaks up this sickness. I want to get back on the job. Stayed in bed all day.Sept 6 MondayStayed in bed today also, trying to recuperate from this flu or something. So rested up all day.Sept 7 TuesdayGot up this afternoon, felt pretty fair, but not able to hit the road. I believe Elder Service is coming down with it. It looks about the same. Had a gospel con with the Dekkers.Sept 8 Wednesday.Sure enough he's in bed with the same flu I had. I rested up, did some letter writing, studying and putting jigsaw puzzles together.Sept 9 ThursdayStill here at Dekkers. Elder S. is feeling a little better but still down in bed. Hope soon we'll both feel better. We held a auxiliary meeting with Don and Barbara Dekker. Trying to teach the gospel to them. I don't know what to think of the Dekkers.Sept 10 FridayLeft Dekkers about noon. Went to Rutland with Jones, went up and got my camera at Potters. Then went to Proctor to see the Marble exhibit. It was quite a sight to see. They have ninety percent of all the marble in the world right here in Vermont. Never seen such beautiful stuff before. They also have marble shipped from Italy, France, South America and the whitest comes from Colorado. It would be nice to have some of this for building, etc. After leaving here we rode with a fellow back to Rutland, then back out to Castleton corners. There we started walking towards Poultney to see the Ball family. A fellow gave us a lift all the way. We couldn't stay at Ball's so headed for East Poultney, then up to Fentons. My we were tired when we arrived. I guess our strength isn't fully restored yet. These folks are really swell. Sure gave us a delicious supper, before retiring.Sept 11 SaturdaySpent the day helping the Fentons on various things. Sure a nice family. They have two cute daughters, Lois 16, Sylvia 13, but oh what tempers they have. Sure put away a lot of delicious food today. Mrs. Fenton is surely a fine cook.Sept 12 Sunday.We had the privilege of holding a meting here this evening also we had the opportunity of listening to Music and the Spoken Word. I sewed my trousers today. Sewed the press in and patched the knee and the seat. Trying to make it last for the summer.Sept 13 MondaySpent all day helping Mr. Fenton. We, that is Elder Service and I, took the tractor and went into the hills to drag out and cut a few oak logs to build a few things on the barn to carry the track for the manure carrier. Had a good day, lots of good exercise.Sept 14 TuesdayLeft Fentons this morning. They made a lunch for us and we tracted towards Middletown Springs. Held a cottage meeting with a young lady. She attends teachers College in Castleton. We then tracted the rest of the day even up to 11:30 P.M. but were forced to sleep out in a barn. The house is deserted so nestled down deep in the hay and slept pretty good.Sept 15 WednesdayTracted on in to town and contacted the town minister to see about a meeting, but he was very antagonistic against us. And said he would do all he could in stopping us to hold a meeting. We absolutely couldn't in his church. We surely confounded him on the scriptures. He kept saying he admired us for what we had done. But he sure detested in anyone who was so dogmatic as we were. He tried in every way he could to keep us from tracting the people here. But that's not going to stop us. We went up and contacted Mr. Hubbard to see if we could use the school house of town hall for a meeting but don't know what it will result in. We started tracting and sold a B of M to Mr. Rogers. He also gave us a delicious dinner. He said we could stay here this evening, if we wished. So we continued but when nightfall came upon us we had another place offered to us. It was Mrs. Fenton's brother. We had a lovely supper and a fine bed. Because we had stayed over to G. Fentons we were able to stay here.Sept 16 ThursdayWe tracted most of the town today and the people wouldn't even come to their doors. The minister Mr. Marble had been around visiting all the people, probably telling some fake story about us. The people wouldn't even listen to us. Its just too bad if they want to be so narrow-minded as that. I hope this minister has to suffer because of this. We stayed  this evening at a Catholic family's residence. "Powers" is their name. They surely treated us well. We had a fine supper. Before retiring I showed them some colored pictures of scenic Utah. They really enjoyed them, but were not able to hold a meeting.Sept 17 FridayHad a lovely breakfast then continued to tract, but most houses were vacant or closed for the winter. Then those who wouldn't answer the door because of what the minister told them about us, which we couldn't find out. But anyway we went through this town of about six hundred in nothing flat. I feel sorry that people won't listen to the message of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. We stayed this evening at Mrs. A. B. Clarks. She is a Catholic and she invited us to stay all night. She's quite wealthy. She even let me cook our supper because she was invited out somewhere. So we really enjoyed a lovely evening. We had a good vegetable dinner. Had a good hot bath before retiring. Sure felt good after the many miles we had walked.Sept. 18. Saturday.Had a lovely breakfast this morning then we held a meeting with Mrs. Clark before continuing tracting. We finished about 1:30 P.M. A lady invited us in and gave us a nice dinner but we couldn't hold a meeting. When we got back to Mrs. Clarks she had a lovely dinner prepared for us. She is going to drive us to Pawlet. So we ate dinner there too. I've never been so full in a long time. To eat dinner twice in the same hour don't go. But it sure tasted good. Mrs. Clark then drove us to Pawlet. We hit a terrific thunder storm when we arrived there. But we waited in a store till it let up. Then we began walking and not far down the road a large tree had blown over across the road. The traffic was stalled for quite a distance. We were the only ones able to get through. We walked about five miles and another storm hit us. We found shelter on someone's front porch till we thought it was over, then put up our umbrellas and continued but we were caught in the worst of the storm while walking. Gee our shoes were soaked, also the bottom part of my pants. We walked all the way to Dorset to see our members. It was around ten miles all the way from Pawlet. Dean and Flora Fawsett treated us grand. We had a good supper then they took us to the show. We saw Mr. Peabody and the Mermaid, what a show. Got to bed about 12:30 P.M.Sept 19 SundaySpent the day with the Fausetts. Had a cottage meeting with them and a lovely chicken dinner. Flora and Dorothy Yokum took us for a ride to see more of scenic Vermont. The maple leaves are turning red in various spots so it was very picturesque. Had an enjoyable trip. It would have been much nicer if Lorraine had been here to enjoy it also. But she was here in thought anyway.Sept. 20 MondayHad a lovely breakfast this morning. Then Flora and Dorothy took us to Rutland, for they had to do some shopping there. So it made it very handy for us. For my suit has all broke out in the knees so I had to get it changed. I'll have to wear my new summer suit. We had dinner at Potters then got our things then went over to Hilda Reynolds. There we held a meeting with them. We stayed here tonight. About midnight Mike came to see Hilda. He's a baseball player and a very special friend of Hildas.Sept. 21 Tuesday.Did some shopping today and saw the doctor about my ailment. By this time it was too late to start tracting again so we stayed at Mrs. Reynolds again.Sept 22 WednesdayHad a few more errands to do then went  back up to 123 Temple to get a few more things. We finally left and walked all the way to Castleton which is 11 miles. Had supper at Mr. and Mrs. Anious [Onions?]. We couldn't stay here, for the little boy is sick with the flu. So they brought us over to Dekkers. We stayed here tonight.Sept. 23 ThursdayWe made arrangements to hold a meeting in Castleton. Reverend Johnson gave us permission to use his chapel. He's very broad minded and is always glad to be of assistance. We arranged the meeting for Monday evening at 8:00 P.M. Hope we can get a good crowd out. We finished tracting into the township and also some of Castleton but no cottage meetings. Stayed tonight out to Isaac Fish's place.Sept. 24 FridayTracted all day but people aren't much interested in our continued calling around. We had a meeting today with Mrs. Jones and another at Mrs. Cole's. They both bought a B of M. We stayed again here at Ike's. I made him a cake and cooked supper. He didn't eat much. He drank beer all evening.Sept 25 SaturdayWe finished tracting the township today and held two cottage meetings, one with Mrs. Davis and another with a young married girl. She was married to a bigamist, but didn't find out about it till he had been married to him for several years. He had a wife in another part of the state. But he joined the army as soon as she found it out, and left her with three children. What a deal, and what queer cases we run into. We stayed again at Ikes. I made meat loaf tonight. Ike was supposed to go to work at 4 P.M. but he came home about seven and said he didn't feel like going to work and borrowed Elder Service's pen and wrote something in a notebook and went out to his bedroom. Well, it seemed rather strange for him to act like that so Elder Service went out and there was another guy out there and came rushing in and said Ike had just taken a drink of lypol and [was] trying to commit suicide. Well we fixed up a hot salt water drink and made him drink it. He had already fallen to the floor, but Jack got it down him and it made him throw up, then we called the doctor. He said to give him milk, but he only took a couple of swallows. We then called the state police and they called the ambulance. When it came we finally convinced him to go to the hospital. The doctor convinced him to stay. He surely wanted to die. You see we have an experience in everything. It rather took our appetite in everything, but we did eat fairly well about midnight. In that ambulance was about the fastest ride I've ever had to Rutland. Then during the night we thought someone was trying to break in. First it would go to one door then the next. We finally got enough courage to see what it was, and it was a blasted dog. We felt like shooting it, after all the noise it made. What a night we spent.Sept 26 SundayIke had bought a nice chicken for me to fix for dinner today. Sure wish he could be here to help us eat it. It was very delicious and tender too, with nice chicken giblet gravy. Spent most of the day here, but this evening his son came home to take care of the place. We were much relieved over the situation. We went out to Dekkers for the night.Sept 27 MondayHelped Dekkers all day harvesting corn. This evening we only had four out to our meeting, two from the Dekker family, one lady from town and Rev. Johnson. We did have a good meeting and a good discussion with Rev. J. We stayed at Dekkers tonight.Sept 28 TuesdayWorked again all day at Dekkers in the corn. They don't seem to appreciate it too deeply for what we are doing for them. All they eat in all three meals is starch. Every meal has potatoes and bread. They don't know what other vegetables look like, I guess. They exist entirely on potatoes.Wednesday 29 Sept.Began tracting again today, but all we hit was catholic in Hydeville. What a reception we had. We tracted till about 9:30 P.M. but couldn't find anyone who would take us in so we came out to Ike's place again and stayed with his son tonight. Boy are we tired. Guess we worked too hard the last two days and weren't used to it. We didn't get to bed here until 1:30 P.M. [probably 1:30 A.M.]. I thought they would never quit talking. When we hit the bed we died like a log.Thursday Sept 30Tracted most of Castleton Corners today. Held two meetings and an invitation at another place by the name of Wood to stay all night. They had a cabin they turned over to us. They gave us some supper too, so it was really helpful. Mr. Wood is in the slate business. They go to Florida for the winter. Sure had a nice place here this evening.Oct. 1 FridayFinished tracting Hydeville and held one meeting with Pelky's then tracted clear up to West Castleton and stayed with the Crossmans. They treated us swell. We had several good conversations with them but no meeting. Maybe next time.Oct 2. SaturdayHeaded for Fair Haven today. We held a meeting with Mrs. Brown and took a tour through a slate quarry. They can really split it thin. It's made into shingles, tile and flagging for walks and many other uses. Got our mail today and my suit then headed for East Poultney and to Fentons. Mr. Soine of Rutland gave us a ride to Poultney, then we walked the rest of the distance. Someone always informs them we are coming, so we can't surprise them. We stayed here tonight.Oct 3rd SundayToday is the Semi Annual Conference. Wish I could be there for the occasion. We listened to Dr. Widtsoe over the church of the air broadcast then later on heard the choir and organ. Its marvelous to be able to hear of these. Took a walk up in the beautiful Vermont hills today to enjoy the scenic foliage. My it's beautiful. Stayed here again tonight.Oct 4 MondayMy Mrs. Fenton sure puts on a feed every meal. We hauled fertilizer today and got quite a bit done. We also dug the rest of his potatoes and picked the corn. They sure had a wonderful garden this year. We stayed again.Oct 5 TuesdayHauled more fertilizer today. Elder Service shot a red fox which was killing a chicken. My they're pretty, sure destructive though. We cut the chicken's head off so it could be eaten. Stayed again. My they are good investigators. I'm sure they will come into the church some day soon.Oct 6 WednesdayHauled more sunshine today. We planned on going to Wards this afternoon but instead he held a Study class and stayed again.Oct 7, ThursdayAfter breakfast this morning Mr. Fenton took us down to Poultney to see his new truck and also to see if we could find a place to stay for the winter. We saw Mrs. Ball and she thinks we could get their old shack, because Mr. Fenton said he would give us a bed and stove and a few things. Also keep us supplied with potatoes and vegetables this winter. Gee they are fine people. We rode in the new truck up to Frisbie Wards, but they weren't home so we walked down the railroad track to Dekkers. We stayed here tonight and held a meeting.Oct. 8 FridayLeft here and visited Ike Fish. He's feeling pretty good, said he guessed the Lord didn't want him yet. Sure hope he changes his life and way of thinking. For he has much to be thankful for. We then caught the bus and went to Rutland. There we had dinner with Mrs. Purrier and visited with the Potters. We put the storm windows on Mrs. Purriers windows, quite a job. Stayed here in the attic tonight. We also visited with the Halls,but there folks weren't home yet. We saw Bro. Kelly and had a good visit with him.  He wants to go west, maybe Sacramento in November. We got a huge box of literature from him, enough to last all winter. In Poultney then had supper at Purriers.Oct. 9 SaturdaySpent most of the day straightening up my junk and stuff. We put the storm windows on for Mrs. Potter today then had a good visit with them. Went out to Wallingford to see our member, Sister Snyder. We had a good visit and stayed here tonight.Oct 10 SundayHad a sacrament meeting today and listened to the Tabernacle Choir and organ then wrote a few letters, then spent most of the day studying. Had chicken dinner this afternoon and stayed again this evening. The other day Sister Snyder tried to take an overdose of sleeping tablets attempting to commit suicide. What cases we are confronted . Held a sacrament meeting with her also.Oct. 11 MondayRalph gave us a ride down. We then had a ride offered to us by some Snyders friends for I had to go in and visit the Doctor about my kidney. He just gave me more pills and charged me another two dollars. Hope I can find the cause of it all. Held a fine cottage meeting with Mrs. Potter this evening. She's about ready for baptism. Stayed up in the attic again tonight.Oct 13 Wed [these two days are in the book in this order]Did some tracting and visiting investigators today. Sentons were not home. Got Elder Service's shoes fixed then visited the Buggimi's. She gave us dinner. It was good. Had a nice talk with them. She also gave us a marble square souvenir with our initials engraved on it. We then visited Whitcombs and Strattons, then later in the evening we held a street meeting. Afterwards visited with the Knipes, had a fine visit and later in the evening they served us waffles and maple syrup with chocolate milk and apples. Stayed till after 11 P.M. Stayed in the attic at Puryers again tonight.Oct 12 Tues. [ in order as it appears in the book]Sentons weren't home again. We contacted the Bancrofts. They are just good friends. We then left and visited the Soines, moved a few things for them. Had a good visit with Mr. Soine. Mrs. Soine is from Tooele or some where anyway Utah. So we enjoyed in talking about out west. Had dinner at Potters again and this evening we held a cottage meeting with the Halls. Elder Service did some painting for them.Oct. 14 Thur.Bid Puryers and Potters adieu then caught Mr. Senton as he was leaving. Rode down town with him and had a good talk. We bought our tickets then visited Hilda for a few moments before the bus came. We had dinner then left. Arrived in Fair Haven safely, got our mail and received orders from Pres. Young to move into our apartments or places of abode for the winter. We continued to Poultney, got a ride all the way. Helped Balls move in and stayed with them. Made arrangements to stay with Mr. and Mrs. Ed Wood for this winter. We can do our own cooking.Oct. 15 Fri.Held a little more this morning then took off for Rutland. Stopped to see Frisbie Ward but he wasn't home. We visited Mrs. Dawson, held a cottage meeting with her. She's been thru quite a trial. What a husband she has. Not much good. Chases with all the women he can. Too bad there's so many like him today. Continued tracting until we reached Deckers. Held another meeting with them and stayed here tonight. Had more potato dinner. That consists of their entire diet.Oct 16 Sat.This morning at Deckers we dipped some autumn leaves in wax to preserve their natural color. We then went to catch the bus. Saw Ike fish on the way down. He seems to be doing all right. Soon after we caught the bus for Rutland. We packed all our suitcases and fixed Mrs. Puryers stove. It was plugged up with dirt. This evening after supper we held a cottage meeting with Mrs. Puryer, Mrs. Christmas, and Cristy or Mary Kenney. We had a nice visit afterwards.Oct 17 Sun.This morning we listened to the choir and organ. Had breakfast with Mrs. Puryers first. Had our dinner at Potters again. Such delicious food. We had a fine cottage meeting with them again. Did a lot of studying and writing letters today.Oct 18 Mon.We took Elder Service's trunk down and also my big box to be mailed. It cost me $1.97 to send it home. His trunk cost him $8.22. What a deal. At noon Kermit and Gertrude hauled all our suitcases and etc. down to the bus depot. What a relief it was to have it moved so easily. We had a three hour wait so we studied all the time. Arrived here in Poultney okay. We had to make three trips to get all our equipment down to Woods. After getting settled we spent the rest of the evening visiting with the Balls. This morning we went to the Highway Department and they gave us two large maps of Rutland County. Sure nice of them.Tues. 19 Oct.Helped with the washing today. Afterwards went up and helped Mr. Fenton with his posts on his dung carrier and track. He is quite handicapped and also bothered with his sciatic nerve. We had dinner and supper with them and also helped them milk. This evening we visited again with the Ball family also Barbara Wood from Melrose Mass was there. I made them some fudge. It turned out fairly good. Barb. Is quite a nice young girl.Wed. 20 Oct.This morning we went to the town clerk's office and copied a map of Poultney. We then began tracting south of the Poultney river bridge. At the fourth house we held a cottage meeting and also helped her with her storm windows. Continued tracting and met some fine people. This evening we had a nice visit with Barb. I gave her a B of M. that I had here, also some literature. She seems very much interested for a girl of her age. She's only 18.Oct. 21 Thur.Bid good-by to Barb. and Mrs. Ward before they returned to Melrose and Boston. She's a fine girl, very level headed, doesn't drink or smoke. It's nice to meet girls like that once in a while. We see so many who do smoke now days. We held another cottage meeting today.Oct 22 Fri.Continued tracting in South Poultney. Met a lot of Polish and Welch people, most of them work in the slate quarries. For there are quarries all over the place. I never saw such huge concerns before. Some of those pits are awesome to look into. We visited about the largest quarry in the vicinity and made a tour through it. They gave us a few samples before we left. Very interesting. This evening we held a meeting at Mrs. Hewes. They are 7th Day Adventists. We had some good discussions. They gave us some of their literature too. But it harps so much on the 7th day that it can't be much truth in it.Oct 23 Sat.Finished tracting in South Poultney today. Held another meeting also met many fine people several invitations back. We also took some snaps of that huge Slate Quarry. Hope they turn out good. Had a long walk back to town for we were clear down to the New York  border.Oct. 24 Sun.Did mostly odd jobs today, and getting ready to go to So. Royalton to see Pres. Young in this special conference.Oct. 25 Mon.Took the bus to Rutland this morning at 7 A.M. We then went out on the highway and a fellow picked us up and took us to Bethel and another fellow picked us up and brought us all the way to So. Royalton. The Lord truly provides when we are in need. For we were almost broke. It was good to see Sister Salter again, also some of the Elders who had arrived for the conference.Oct 26th  I'm called Abraham Lincoln by Pres. Young. Today we enjoyed the conference with Pres. Young. (Elder Spafford was there also.) It was mostly to clear up report mistakes and etc. This afternoon we had a wedding performed by Pres. Young. I sang a solo - "I Love Thee". We had an enjoyable day. Bishop Walton and wife, also Wallace Sorenson and wife had registered at the cottage just a few days ago. Sure would have been nice to have seen them, but guess I'll [have] to wait till spring now.Oct. 27 WednesdayLeft today for our field of labor. We stopped in on the Hunts on our way, but they are mostly friends. We stayed here tonight. Pittsfield, VermontOct 28 ThursdayLeft for Rutland this morning after a nice breakfast. We held a street meeting in Rutland while waiting for the bus. We arrived back here in Poultney safely and glad to be settled again. We called up Mr. Fenton tonight, for we hope to help him tomorrow in getting his manure carrier installed.Oct 29 FriWe got all the posts set and most of them cut off on top. They are all quite a job. We had two delicious meals here and stayed here tonight.Oct 30 Sat.Got some logs out today, for the rest of the carrier. It's going to be quite an outfit when it is finished. Today had some stomach trouble with a miserable headache. Hope it soon leaves. We stayed here again tonight.Oct 31 Sun.Listened to the Tabernacle choir this morning then this afternoon we helped them pick a few apples before we came home.Nov. 1st Mon.Been lying around all day hope to feel better soon. Wish I could find out what's troubling me and why I feel so tired all the time.Nov 2nd Tue, 3rd WedSick most of the time. We did a few hours tracting today (Wed) but rested most of the day. This afternoon went up to West Haven to visit some investigators. We held a meeting and sold a B of M to Mrs. Jakeway. We stayed this evening with the Best family.Nov. 4 Thurs. Left there this noon, for my health was going against me again. We're going to see a doctor as soon as we can. In fact we saw Dr. Clough this evening. He said my blood pressure is low also my hemoglobin is low also. So he gave me a slew of pills to take. Sure be a relief to get back to normal again.Nov. 5. Fri. Tracted on Grove St. today. Met a few fine people, but couldn't hold a meeting, but we started evening tracting and the second house we had a good hour in cottage meeting.Nov. 6 SaturdayWe tracted all of Furnace and East St. Today we held a cottage meeting today also Had invitations to return later from several. So we should have a pretty nice area here.Nov 7 SundayToday is fast day. We tried going without supper Saturday evening also Sunday breakfast, and it works out fine. Spent most of the day at odd jobs, and study. Sure seems good to have  an appetite again and feel like going again.Nov. 8 Mon.Today is wash day. I did a few odd jobs around while Elder Service helped with the washing. Didn't feel too good today so we stayed in. I guess my blood pressure isn't up to par yet.Nov 9. Tues.Spent most of the day resting up. We are planning on going back up to Fair haven and Benson tomorrow.Nov. 10 Wed.Mr. Wood gave us a ride to Castleton Cor's. there we walked 13 1/2 miles up to Clyde Wilcox. I was about give out, being that my blood pressure as it is. I was all in. We had a delicious supper but couldn't hold a meeting so we just talked gospel and listened to a comic record "Life gets tee-jus don't it". Sure good. We sure had a nice bed to sleep in this evening.Nov 11 Thur.After a delicious breakfast we journeyed on. We stopped at Rival Wilcox but they were busy. We then took some pictures with umbrella open then went down to Botsworths. There we had a delicious dinner, and a lot of worldly gossip. We then went to see Mr. John Brown but he wasn't home. So we then walked a long distant up to Beaumonts. I imagine its about 12 miles from Wilcox's where [we] were last might. Gee I was tired again. We had a very nice cottage meeting and a good supper. We also discussed points of doctrine and had a good bed to sleep in. These are fine people, very kind.Nov. 12. Fri.Mr. Phillip Beaumont gave each of us a whole gallon of maple syrup before we departed. He's sure swell. We then walked a good five miles then a fellow gave us a ride to Fair Haven. We walked to the outskirts of town and another fellow gave us a lift right into Poultney. So we were fortunate. I went to bed and rested over the days we had been out. It's good to be home again.Nov. 13 Sat.Rested all day today. I'm feeling much better this afternoon. Got a little studying in and a few letters written in between sleeps. So hope to be back to normal before too long.Nov. 14 Sun.Listened to the Choir and Organ. We had planned on holding a Sunday School in at our members next door but Ed had an accident and was in the hospital so we have to postpone it a little longer. He works for Central Vermont Electric Co. and is a lineman. He was climbing a pole and the pole broke, he almost got electrocuted. So he's mighty fortunate that he only got his thumb broke and a few minor scratches. We have been able to study a little more today and we held a study class this evening. So hope we can get started again tomorrow and get something accomplished.Nov 15 Mon.Went tracting this afternoon, but this morning we did the washing. I put in a threshold and fixed the cupboard door also other odd jobs that was necessary to be done. We didn't get too much tracting done but we were able to do a little.Nov. 16 Tues.We got in 7 hours tracting yesterday and held one meeting ... people... day ...  [ page torn, rest of page missing ]Nov. 22 Mon.Went to Rutland to see about glasses. My eyes don't seem too good. I've had lots of eye fatigue. Had a complete eye exam but had to purchase some. Gee $18.00 sure high. Rode back to Poultney with Will Ward.Nov. 23 Tues.Washed clothes today and rested some more. We are preparing to leave for Rutland. We have an invitation for Thanksgiving at Potters.Nov. 24 Wed.Left for Rutland this morning. Had a good ride. We visited Bro. Kelley for a while. He seems to be getting ... pretty nice. He hopes to get his teeth pretty soon. That will be something to get used to for he's been without them for seve ... Hilda ...  [ page torn, rest of page missing ]Nov. 25 Thur.Had breakfast this morning at Mrs. Puryers, then went down to see the Potters. We helped a little with various things. Previously I had made 2 or 3 pounds of homemade candy, pinoche, divinity, taffy and fudge. They sure went down on it. About 2:30 P.M. we sat down to the most beautiful spread I had seen since being home. I was asked to offer the blessing. Then we began enjoying the delicious food, which had been prepared so tasty and delicious by Mrs. Potter. The dressing was perfect, never tasted anything like it. The turkey was moist and nice all the way through. We had Utah celery and potatoes, broccoli, ...eamed onions [steamed or creamed?], squash, then for dessert we [had] rice pudding with dates and pecan nuts in it, squash pie, mince pie and to drink we had (orange, pineapple, grape juice with ginger ale) all mixed together. Sure was good. This afternoon we had a nice cottage meeting and to top that day we had a few sandwiches and more pudding and pie.Slept in the loft again tonight. The bed is rather short for me but we manage somehow.Nov. 26We had breakfast with the Potters then visited the Bujjoni's for a while, then went back to Potters and had another Thanksgiving dinner. My what a treat we've had this Thanksgiving weekend. After a short visit we left for Wallingford to see the Snyders and try to hold a Sacrament Meeting with Sister Snyder. They offered us supper, but were so full of turkey we couldn't eat much, but enjoyed a nice evening. My health isn't too good though. We were unable to hold a sacrament meeting. They had too much gab to get off their chests. Had a lovely bed to rest in.Nov. 27th SaturdayHad a nice breakfast this morning, then we had a sacrament meeting. The spirit of the Lord was truly there. They insisted on us staying for a few days, but we can't do it, but we will stay for dinner. They had some pork they wanted us to taste. It was fine. They sure are nice people. We left there, caught the bus for Rutland, then saw William Ward and rode to Poultney with him. Then had supper and enjoyed visiting with the Woods again.Nov. 28 Sun.Listened to the Tabernacle Choir, wrote a few letters, and this evening we held our first Sunday School with Edwin Ball, his wife and Mrs. Wood. I mentioned pre-existence, so that was the highlight in the discussion. I sang a song for opening and closing. That was the balance of what took place.Nov. 29 Mon.Washing was done today. I did a few small jobs but rested most of the day.[ end of journal entries ]Released from his mission, letter dated December 15, 1948. He says that he was released early because of his health. Problems were aggravated by his times tracting without purse or scrip. Additional note: I looked up Richard L Service in the Polk directories (1966) and found:Richard L and Patricia B. Service SLSMN Economy SLS SERV  2596 Mount Crest Dr. Holladay I donÍt know where he is now.